This is Jockel Podcast number three.
Oh, eight with echo Charles and me.
Jockel, we're in good evening, echo.
Good evening.
So tonight at long last, we are going to wrap up what has ended up being a six part series.
I got a little out of control, didn't I?
Well, I kind of got a little out of control this one.
Well, how not to do it cannot be overstated?
How not to do it cannot be overstated?
It's explained that.
It means like if there are little tips how not to do something, let's face it.
The value is what it call infinite.
It's infinite.
Check, good point.
The book is called on the psychology of military competence.
We started on 303, podcast 303, 304, 305, 306, 307.
That's a lot of podcast.
This is the winner.
Most number of podcasts on a single book.
If you haven't listened those, you can go back.
I actually will say this in preparing this one.
If you haven't listened those, you don't have to go back.
You can listen to this one.
There might be a couple of references, but they're not super, you'll be able to get through
them.
And this section that we're about to cover kind of starts with the crux of the book.
But again, when I started reading this book a couple of years ago, it was a couple, maybe
a year ago.
Maybe a couple of years ago.
I should have forget when I got this book.
But I knew it was going to take a while, I didn't know it was going to take this long,
but here we are.
I apologize for taking so long.
Like you said, though, when you understand how not to do something and you understand what
the pitfalls are and the mistakes you can make and the traps.
These things are all traps.
They're all traps.
And when you start to be able to see the traps, it helps a person a lot.
It doesn't make them not going to the traps.
That's the whole point.
That's one of the whole points of this book is people know that this is a trap and they
walk right into it.
They just can't even help themselves.
Like remember the whole name dropping thing that he talked about?
I forget which one it was, but the name dropping, everybody knows it looks whack and
they still do it.
They can't control themselves.
Well, let me rephrase that, an arrogant, egotistical person that's nervous about how they
look.
They're going to name drop even though they know it looks bad.
Even though they'll point at someone else and say, oh, listen to Carrie name drop.
They'll do that and then they'll name drop.
They'll go, hey, see you.
Carrie was name drop and over.
You see him name dropping me.
I was talking to Joe Rogan yesterday.
You're not on saying it?
That's how whack people are.
That's how we get stuck in lame situations.
So the crux of this book is actually the chapter we're going to start with right now.
Dave Burke could make it by the way.
It's good to work in busy.
The chapter here is called authoritarianism and this is kind of the crux and this is
this is what we need to watch out for.
This is what we need to watch out for.
This authoritarian mindset.
Look, do you need to watch out for it as a nation?
Yes, you better, especially as things start getting imposed on your life because that slides
into authoritarianism.
And that's a slippery slope.
And I know you're going to bring up the slippery slope.
Valicy.
Well, I see you didn't your eyes.
No, well, again, and I'll see that I said it before where there is such things as slippery
slope.
And there is such things as slippery slope.
Valicy.
They're not like one doesn't, you know.
They both exist.
They both exist exactly right.
So authoritarianism in our minds, we have to watch out for it in our teams.
As leaders, we have to watch out for it.
And yes, as human beings living in a whatever country you live in, you need to watch out
for that authoritarianism.
Because it's a thing that once it starts to take hold, the authoritarian, it's no boss.
Like, I get a little bit of control.
A authoritarian people when they get a little bit of control, they want more control.
And then they get a little bit more, they want even more.
And they don't stop.
It's a, it's a, it's a psychopathology that they have, that they can't contain it.
So here we go.
authoritarianism.
In discussing military organizations, it was suggested that a symbiotic relationship
exists between certain characteristics of armed services and the private needs of the individual
members.
So what that's saying is, when you go on the military, there's certain needs that certain
people have, certain psychological needs that people have.
But going in the military satisfies those needs.
For instance, here's an example of where this is a bad thing.
I like to rule over people.
I know if I be coming off during the military, I'll be able to rule over those privates.
So it sort of satisfies that to me.
So there's a nice relationship I have.
I want to be an authoritarian.
This puts me into an authoritarian position.
I love it.
Is this true of all military people?
No, it's not.
Continue on emphasis was laid upon the central role in this relationship of anxiety that
incidious motivator of such, of much human behavior.
In the military mind, it was pointed out anxiety has many sources.
Fear of death and mutilation, fear of suppression, fear of failure and social disapproval,
fear of public disgrace and underlying all that fear of total disorder, which is in separable
product of unleashing normally tabooed instinctual forces.
So if you're a person that doesn't like disorder, you look at the military and go,
huh?
That looks pretty good.
You gotta go to bed at a certain time.
All these people will listen to me.
We get to follow orders.
They're going to tell me what to do.
Everyone's going to listen to when I tell them what to do.
That's you, you're a, if you don't like disorder, that's a great place to be.
Until what happens, the layer of total disorder on planet earth opens its jaws and that
is combat.
So now you're a person that doesn't like disorder and for your job at the moment of truth,
you are thrust into the jaws of the highest level of disorder in the world.
That is combat.
And that's why this is, that's what this book is about.
This psychology of military incompetence is because people that like order.
They join the military because they like order.
And then they're actual job.
Look, part of their job is marching around a parade field and inspecting uniforms and keeping
everything square away.
That's great.
But when that, when that homey shows up and shit's getting crazy, they lose their minds.
So when you're looking, when you're judging and you're thinking, I want to find that
bad guy be a good military officer.
They're highly disciplined.
They, they, they, they follow orders.
They're a foritary and they seem like they be great.
You need to remember what's that person going to do when things get wild and they're
going to get wild.
Continuing on, finally it was suggested.
And you can see where this whole book, that little, that, that crocks.
That's why I said this is the crux of the book.
That crux right there is why this is so fascinating to me because I've seen this throughout
my career.
People that were square away, people that were highly disciplined, people that were
loved for things to be in order and when things weren't going right or things were getting
wild, they'd lose their minds.
And by the way, if they never got put into a situation where things got wild, they get
promoted by the way.
They're getting promoted because they're the most ordered.
They kept the tightest reins on their troops.
Back to the book, finally it was suggested that a special predisposition toward these several
sorts of anxiety may be present some people as a result of their early childhood.
Again, this is where, and somebody pointed this out to me on one of the YouTube comments,
the word I was looking for was psychobabble.
Psychobabble.
Because again, this guy was a psychologist, so he ties all the stuff into weird Freudian
freaking childhood experiences.
And I can't back any that up.
I don't know about any of that.
What I do know is this, people have different personalities.
Where those personalities came from, I don't really know, and I actually don't care.
You show up to a seal team.
Your personality is that whatever your personality is, and that's great.
That's fine.
I don't care where it came from.
If you're hyper-ordered and you can't stand it when things get wild, you're not going
to be a good seal officer or a good seal leader.
If you're totally rebellious and you can't fall in the line ever, well that's too far
in the other direction, and now you can't control anything, you can't control yourself.
So we want to find some of that balances that dichotomy, but whether it comes from early childhood
in the way you were potty trained in all these kinds of psychobabble, I don't know.
I don't know.
We'll have to ask Jordan B. Peter's a name drop about that one.
Such people may well be drawn towards military organizations because the latter have
of necessity, perfected devices like bullshit, discipline, and hierarchical command structures
and rigid conventions, which not only allow aggression without anxiety, but also reduce
anxiety that may have originated much earlier period of life.
Again, a little bit, a little bit psychoanalysis too much for me.
It's sort of, it's a bummer because as I've said many times, Jordan Peterson may be
starting to like think maybe psychology was sort of a real thing.
This is kind of dropping back in the back.
Sorry, psychology.
Somebody who put somebody who went, I was reading YouTube notes, no comments.
And somebody was telling me that, you know, what much of what Freud said was actually right,
but he's just been so like hammered by his reputation because he was a cocaine fiend.
And now we kind of dis dis dis disperse or dispatch everything that he said.
So maybe I was a little hard on him.
I don't know.
As far as I'm concerned, if you're doing a lot of cocaine like that and you're prescribing
it to a bunch of people and you're lying about who's getting cured, I kind of take a lot of
what you said and thrown out the window.
Yeah, well, what's that?
There's a bias too, right?
The cocaine addiction.
I don't know.
Yes, that's my bias.
I'm biased against people that are addicted to cocaine.
No, it's not a bias.
It's a logical fallacy.
I don't know if you're you're committing this logical fallacy, but it's the, I forget
what it is.
The example is like, oh, why would you listen to Fred?
Fred doesn't even have a job.
So it's kind of like, okay, it's like, I think I am committing this.
It's like, you kind of like, why would you listen to Freud?
I know Freud's addicted to cocaine.
Yeah, I'm lying to people.
I'm not saying you're making the bad decision and I'm like that.
I'm saying from a logical standpoint, it's technically a fallacy.
It's like, okay, that means if you do cocaine, everything else you say is incorrect.
Is that what that means?
Yeah.
For a logical standpoint.
You're right.
Well, I'll concede that per, well, that's what I am continuing.
Okay.
Freud was right part of the time.
Give Freud his part on some of the stuff.
As you was, you know, just not a, in light of all this, it is encouraging to encounter
a substantial body of research, which not only provides support for the thesis, but also
fills in many of the gaps.
It is that on the authoritarian personality and then they get into this massive section
about the authoritarian personality, which I'm not comfortable with because I've already spent
six freaking podcasts on this book, which is all good.
But I'm going to do a little bit of it for the impetus behind the study of authoritarianism.
We have to think the founders and proponents of the third Reich, they, it who was presented
to the world, a phenomenon, the like of which has never been seen before, since the
systematic bureaucratized murder of six million Jews to the inquiring mind anti-Semitism
on the scale would seem to demand at the very least some explanation for group of researchers
at Frankfurt and later at Berkeley, California, the fact that human prejudice could assume
such monstrous proportion suggested the possibility of a particular personality type being
implicated in the perpetration of these dark events.
So basically he's saying, look, the Nazis were psycho, where did their personality come from,
what type of people had that personality?
And then he goes into a Nazi psychologist whose name was Jinch, something like that,
Jinch, I don't know, sorry, they're Nazi bastards from mispronouncing your name.
So he broke it down and there was S types at the high end could have something called
Syncysia, have you ever heard of Syncysia before?
Syncysia, this is a very interesting story.
So Syncysia, Seston, he was could memorize any number immediately.
So if he met like a female in a bar, he would say what's your number and they would
say it and he would immediately know it.
And then he was really good at weird math problems and he could memorize dates.
And one day we were talking because it was notistable enough, how good he was at it,
that you think to yourself, there's something a little different, that's really weird how
he could memorize this stuff.
So he said to me one day he goes, you know, this is kind of weird, but when I see numbers,
I don't see a number, I see a color and it has like a texture to it.
And I was like, okay, bro, if we were to the military, I'd think you were maybe on
something.
So LSD or whatever.
So he, I said, what do you mean?
He says, well, for me, and then he described the colors of each, the colors and textures
of each number.
So the only one I remember was that zero was like hollow.
He said he said zero was hollow.
It's not, it's like it's not there.
One was white.
And the other one I remember is seven was yellow.
And the reason I remembered that one was because I have two sevens in my phone number and
when the first time I asked him what I said, say my phone number in colors and he was
like, you know, yellow, yellow, but a blue.
And yellow, yellow and I have two sevens.
And I said, what's, I go seven, yellow because yeah.
So it was just weird.
He had no idea why this was the situation.
So one day I'm in a bookstore and this is kind of early in the day when you would
just go on a website to buy your books.
I'm in a bookstore and I see numbers on a cover of a book and they're all colored and
textured and I was, I was, that's weird.
And I walk over and I pick it up and I start looking through it and it says, oh, this book is
about a person that had Sanisticia.
And so it, so I look it up.
Sanisticia is a thing where you have multiple, multiple modes of interpreting information.
So for instance, numbers have colors.
They can have letters, can have colors.
But that's the way, that's the way Seth fought.
And so for this Nazi, the change, that was kind of the far end of this kind of wild, creative
thing.
This kind of wild, creative person here, it says, to have subjective experiences in one
modality when receiving stimulation in another.
This is the kind of wildest brain that you can get.
And so this Nazi guy, this is the S type.
These are people that are S types.
It doesn't mean they necessarily have Sanisticia, but they're leaning in that direction.
And this quote has the liberal in his views, eccentric behavior, also weak, a feminine
and prone to a radical belief that people are largely shaped by their environment and education.
Again, this is from an Nazi psychologist, which, if we're not listening to Freud, we're
not listening to this Nazi dude.
So but he's breaking it down in two types, the S type.
And then the other type is the J type.
And according to this guy, the J type were quote, good types that would make good Nazis
amongst their sterling qualities, where purity and perception and the sure knowledge that
human behavior is determined by blood, soil, and national tradition.
The hence freaking Nazis, the J type, so the Nazi type would be a he-man hard and tough
a man you could rely on.
These qualities would he said have been handed down by a long line of North German ancestors.
So this is what the Nazi says.
And it's just, it's kind of funny because, well, Sstone was about as hard of a bastard
as you could ever know.
And a certain be a he-man, a divisible as well.
And a warrior, a big freaking Viking warrior, a Texas mom, the other day, I was like, yeah,
thanks for letting me hang out with that freaking savage, Viking kid of yours.
So now we go to the Berkeley study.
So we just did the Nazi study who got these two different types, the S type, which is sort
of a liberal sort of a feminine type, and then the J type, which is more of the conservative
hardcore type.
And the American researchers later, going back to the book, also found two contrasting
personality types, and these were very like those described by change.
Needless to say, they evaluated them rather differently, the one that corresponded to the
J type, they called the authoritarian personality.
Such a person was anti-Semitic, rigid, intolerant of ambiguity.
I can't think about this.
If you're intolerant of ambiguity, think of how you're in a performing combat.
You're going to be great in the military, in the in the in the in the rear of the military,
because you're you don't like ambiguity, as soon as you're in combat, you don't know exactly
know what's happening.
You got to make it as soon as you're going to hate it.
So intolerant of ambiguity and hostile to people or groups racially different from himself
by the same token of the polar opposite to this type, change, contemptible, anti-type was
individualistic, tolerant, democratic, unpredgidists, and egalitarian.
So you've got these two different personalities.
The Nazis called the bad one good.
And the Berkeley people called the good one bad.
So you get, however you want to break that down.
Their test provided measures of anti-Semitism, ethnocentrism, political and economic
conservatism, and implicit anti-democratic trends or potentiality for fascism, which
they called the F scale.
Like what is your potential of becoming a fascist?
This much of which is based on by actual utterances by the Nazis measured in individuals
predisposition towards.
So this is what the F type.
If you have a tendency where you can become a fascist, conventionalism, ie rigid adherence
to conventional middle-class values.
A foritarian submission.
A submissive uncritical attitude toward the idealized moral authorities of the group,
which he identifies himself.
And that's what's kind of crazy, right?
You would think that a foritarians would be hard to control.
But if you're part of that group, they're in the game.
So that's why I like the young officer in the military that he's totally down.
He's saluting without most vigor because he's part of that system.
And he's on board.
He's submissive to the system.
A foritarian aggression, ie, a tendency to be on the lookout for and to condemn reject
and punish people who violate conventional values.
It's kind of weird how there's like right now.
You've got antifa who's supposed to be sort of like the wild antifascist who's actually
totally on board with what I'm saying right now as they're off the charts on the F scale.
Yeah, so like this, I don't know if this S F scale would reflect this specifically or accurately.
But essentially, like two sides, right?
One is real conventional, right?
They're probably probably, I don't know, but they're probably going to ignore exceptions.
You know, the value of exceptions and the nuance and all this stuff, right?
They're going to tend to ignore it, right?
Then you have the other side who probably overvalue nuance and exceptions.
Kind of like, hey, if there's these exceptions, that must be just as equal as the rule.
Because you know, you kind of look at the individual, you know?
So that antifa analogy is absolutely correct.
They're doing an exact same thing.
They're just reversed.
Yeah, you got to kind of, I don't know, back in the day, it seems like everyone was way
more just in the middle.
Well, balance is what we lose.
What you want, even on these two things, do you want to be a fascist?
No, but do you want to be crazy uncontrollable?
No, you want to be balanced.
Yeah.
And even just valuing like the group and then on the other hand, valuing the individual,
it's like you got to value both of those things.
I think about those things.
100%.
Yeah.
Next one, anti-interception.
IE opposition to the subjective, the imaginative, and the tender-minded superstition and
stereotype power and toughness preoccupation with the dominant submission, strong, weak,
leader, follower, dimension, identification with power figures, overemphasis on conventional
attributes of the ego, exaggeration, exaggerated, exaggerated assertion of strength and toughness.
So how much of that is important?
You know, that's putting you out there on that F scale a little bit.
I'm starting to drift, man.
Start to drift.
Destructiveness and cynicism.
Generalized hostility, vilification of the human.
So obviously, a lot of this was focused around, hey, the Nazis and where the Nazis came from,
part of that F thing is they can look at humans and be like whatever they don't matter.
Projectivity, the belief that wild and dangerous things go on in the world, the projection
outwards of unconscious emotional impulses, pure, atanical and exaggerated concern with
sexual goings on.
So you got these two personality types.
Another little note here, these torturous machinations of the authority of the authoritarian
mind, ramify yet further.
As he has to deny his own shortcomings, he dare not look inward.
He is fearful of insight and strenuously avoids questioning his own motives.
Again, this is when people are, they're not real confident with themselves, so they project
and look at everyone else.
Similarly, the authoritarian personality is intolerant of ambivalence and ambiguity.
We already hit that.
Not as he cannot harbor negative and positive feelings for the same person, but must dichotomize
reality into loved people versus hated people.
So that's a very, that's restating what you said, because someone, what should you be able
to do?
You should be able to look at echo and be like, you know what, I like that echo, he's
pretty nice, but also he can get a little bit lazy sometimes, but overall, you know,
we're good.
Cryptic messages, whatever.
Right, but if I say echo is nice, but freaking easily easy, I can't stand him, right?
And then you can start looking from one individual to look to a whole group of people,
as you said, and start looking at a group of people and just saying, well, that group
of people is bad.
Did I just do that with Antifa?
I just kind of, sorry, you implied it.
I'm sorry, Antifa.
I need a little bit more over-minded to your individuals.
Yeah, they're one of those groups that they're, they're, they're current public facing
persona, not that hard.
There's another nine-year research that took place published a decade after the Berkeley
Research, and this is something that I've been focused on a lot, and it's the open and
closed mind centered on the problem of an individual's capacity to absorb fresh information,
humanity it seems, varies considerably in this respect.
And God, that is true.
So this guy, his name is Rokech, Rockych, something like this, and he did this study,
started breaking down, they're open in the close mind.
Some people have open minds, some people have closed minds.
And I actually think that this is even, kind of, trumps the F, what was it?
The F scale.
I think this trumps the F scale.
How much can someone's mind open, how much can it close?
And I've been talking a lot about this from a leadership perspective, because it is,
to me, what we have to fight all the time.
Our minds are constantly trying to close and be defensive and take care of themselves
and not allow any other ideas in and what we have to do as people and as leaders is constantly
pull your mind open, constantly except other people's ideas.
It doesn't mean you have to think that the right, but you have to listen to them and assess
them in an honest way.
And what we have been doing a lot of, as a society, is just closing our minds to everyone else's
ideas.
And we don't want to hear what their perspective is, because we think we're right.
And if you do that as a leader, you come to me with a viewpoint on my plan.
And I don't open my mind to your viewpoint, I'm wrong.
Goes on here.
Humanity it seems, varies considerably in this respect.
At the one extreme, our open minds, ready and willing to entertain new facts even if they
are incompatible with their previously held attitudes and beliefs.
That's what we want.
You've got to open your mind and go, hey, you know what?
I really expect to see those numbers or get that feedback, but there it is.
And I need to put that in my calculus.
The other, at the other end of the scale, are closed minds, which, as their name suggests,
is a resultally resist taking in anything that conflicts with their preconceptions and treasured
beliefs, not very surprisingly the possession of a closed mind turned out to be yet another
aspect of the authoritarian personality.
Is that, okay, so you can always make it like an analogy to wait lifting for some reason.
No, you can.
But I'm open to it.
That's your way to go.
Like I wonder if that's like a laser, you know, by nature, like the human body and brain
is kind of late for lack of better term in slaves.
It's conserving energy all the time, you know?
So even like lifting weights, when you lift weights, your body's response to lifting weights
is just a lazy, laziness mechanism.
So the body is basically saying, oh, shoot, that was kind of hard.
What do we got to do at home?
Tell me in the body to make it a little bit easier next time.
And then it adapts and gets bigger and stronger, whatever.
So kind of like a weird, like I said, laziness, lack of better term mechanism.
So like when you have a close mind, it's kind of like, hey, I already learned that.
Like, give me some more stuff.
I got to learn.
You know, kind of thing.
So then it's easier.
Like because it's all mental, it's not physical.
So you just kind of resist against it.
And you can see where this ties into everything that I have talked about from a leadership
perspective for my entire life, which is humility.
Because if your humble, your mind is open, if your arrogant, your mind is closed, you
think you know everything.
You don't need to hear anything else.
You're not going to make any adaptations.
Yeah, when you see that little system that kind of makes sense.
It makes so much sense.
Right, especially go back to the weightlifting.
Like you give your body some definitely go back to the left.
That's only a workout.
Right, the next day, you get that domes.
Right, you don't like that stuff.
Like I remember when I was little, I do some pushups, thinking I'm all cool, whatever,
do some of the next day.
I'm like, so I didn't know about domes that much.
And bro, that's a terrible feeling.
So super, I'm not doing that anymore.
Or at the very least, the inside of my body, my body is like, okay, we got to do something
easier or make it so it's easier next time that happens.
So from a mental standpoint, it makes sense.
Where Brad, what do you call it?
The fucking you call, you talk to about it last.
The cognitive dissidence or whatever.
That is domes for your mind, essentially.
Or maybe the precursor to the, I don't know, it's one of those things.
I'm just saying it makes sense.
Is that hurts?
You know, when you get that new stuff.
I don't want that new stuff.
I'm good with this old stuff.
Close mind.
Yeah.
He says here, before leaving this section on a foritarianism, there are several other research
findings which are pertinent to our present thesis.
One of these shows the relationship between conformity, a foritarianism, and the tendency
to yield to group pressures.
An extreme example of this pattern is the phenomenon of the participation in a lynch mob,
where the naturally conformist individual happily yields to group pressure for the
perpetration of a criminally aggressive act, which the holy at variance with the ethos
of the wider society accords with his own narrow self-interest.
So again, it's a, it's a, it's counterintuitive to think that someone that's a foritarian
is going to be more apt to go with the group.
Another finding concerns the effect of authoritarianism upon problem solving in a group
situation.
Oh, I love this one because again, I'm thinking of it from a military perspective and
you start thinking, now you got this authoritarian in command how are they at problem solving?
Well, let's go to the book from their research.
W. H. Thorn in his colleagues concluded this, that, Equalitarian subjects, I.e. those
low on authoritarianism were apparently more effective in dealing with a task in problem
than were authoritarian.
So that open mind is way better for problem solving.
Seems obvious, but this was reflected in higher ratings of effective intelligence, leadership
and goal-striving on the sorts of leaders who emerged in the group situation.
They had this to say, emergent leaders in the low F groups were more sensitive to others,
more effective leaders, more prone to making suggestions for action subject to group
sanction and less likely to give direct orders to others.
This is insane how much this matches everything I've been talking about.
A conclusion incidentally, which accords with the observation that authoritarianists are less
able to appreciate the effect they have upon others and may well think themselves more
like to popular than they really are.
I'm chuckling as I think of my military career and people that thought that they were super
popular and everyone who you do.
Even people attracted to a career in an authoritarian organization.
I.e. the military have been found to prefer leaders who score low on a, on a, on
test of authoritarianism, presumably because of authoritarianists are less sensitive to
the needs of other.
Even when you're a, when you're kind of authoritarian yourself and you joined the
military, when you get asked about what type of leader you like, guess what?
You actually like less authoritarian leaders because they listen, they treat you with respect,
their minds are open.
So this is the best way to lead across the board.
You know, skyscrapers here in San Diego, California, I'm sure it's like this ever.
I'm not an engineer.
You know that.
From what I understand, okay, so think of a tall building, right?
It's talk.
So that thing better be strong, right?
Hold itself up.
But tall buildings aren't made rigidly.
They're made with a little bit of flims, slim ziness on purpose.
Tubzor, like movement.
The various movements and vibrations that may or may not come about.
So it's essentially the same thing.
On the surface, you think, well, yeah, authoritarianism.
That's the way you can't destroy it.
You can't break it or nothing like that, but rather it's not how it works.
If you're too rigid, right, you're just going to crumble when the wiggle start coming.
When the earthquake starts coming, you know?
Again, this is why humility is the most important aspect or characteristic for a leader.
Because when you're humble, you're able to move a little bit.
You're able to take on new ideas.
You're able to sway when the earthquake comes and they're adjustments.
You're not just crumbling and falling down.
It cannot be stressed too strongly that in talking about authoritarianism, we have been
discussing people towards one end of a continuum.
This is important because this is a dichotomy.
This guy couldn't quite put that.
He couldn't grasp that concept like you're boy, right here.
Yes, sir.
Between, because you had a balance at dichotomy, but here's what he says, between this
and the other can be found people with all shades of opinion on the various attitudes measured.
The general point is this, when discussing a authoritarianism, no value judgment is intended.
Few would dispute that in moderation, many of the traits which make up the authoritarian
personality have value in society.
Civilization requires that there be some repression of sex and aggression, some exercise
of discipline and a modicum of conformity and ordinalliness.
So there's aspects of that personality which are good and that's true in the military.
In fact, the military got a little bit extra.
Because you got to be a little bit more conformist because you got to get the teet-you
know you got to be on board, but it attracts people that are too much.
Yeah.
A little bit fast forward here.
In other respects, however, likelihood of above average levels of authoritarianism in military
personnel may well contribute toward incompetence, particularly when the authoritarian
has reached a level of command where flexibility and an open mind are mandatory for success
to be more specific the personality traits of authoritarianism and the associated characteristics
of the closed mind and obsessive character may contribute to incompetence in the following
ways.
One, since authoritarianism has been found to be more dishonest, more irresponsible, more
untrustworthy, more socially conforming, more suspicious than non-authoritarians, they are unlikely
to make successful social leaders.
A foretarians will be less likely to understand enemy intentions.
I never thought of that before.
Actually, here's something new for Jocco.
If you're a foretarian, you're less likely to understand what the enemy is doing because
you can't even understand their perspective.
And to act upon information regarding such intentions as conflict with the beliefs and preconceptions
which the commander might hold.
Makes sense.
Okay, forgive me for all the analogies by the way, I'm just reading the comments.
Now this time is cameras.
Or for whatever, I need to do for two.
They were accurate.
The person who is different among people.
We'll consider a camera, or a photograph, or whatever.
You have high resolution, low resolution, kind of the situation.
The authoritarianism seems like a low resolution scenario.
Way more black and white, way more like, oh yeah, like freaking either.
It's this way.
And if it's not this way, then it's obviously the other way.
But you get a high-res photo.
It's like, oh, that's just black.
Obviously, no, no, just look closer.
It's kind of great.
It's actually pretty dark gray.
And then even within that gray, this darker and lighter shades of gray.
Or is it called?
Or, oh, well, colors.
What, yeah, whatever.
This one might be orange.
This one might be salmon.
Which is a color.
Yeah.
Egg shill.
With a Romalean type.
By the way, what's that from?
I can't say.
No, no, no, but see what I'm saying though, where you get a low-res situation.
Yeah.
Yeah, they don't get it.
They don't know.
And then you said, what they don't know what the enemies thinking.
Yeah, because they see black.
But the enemies not on black.
They're over here on 38% great.
Yeah, exactly right.
So yeah, that's just the way it's working.
It's soon saying.
So you got to be, oh, I'm not saying you got to be.
I'm just saying it might be as the book is demonstrating more efficient.
Effective to have a more nuanced perception of what's happened.
Some higher as to experience.
In 1954, American research showed that people with a high score on tests of a foretarianism
had greater difficulty than non-foritarians in recognizing threatening messages when these
were presented visually.
A year later, another study confirmed this finding with threatening words that were heard
instead of seen.
So someone that's a foretarian.
They don't even, they just don't comprehend the world accurately.
Look, that is now your metaphor just became more ample in that right there.
They can't see as well.
They can't see as clear.
They can't see the nuance.
They can't see the message.
Three, the inability to sacrifice cherished traditions and accept technical innovations, the
history of the machine gun, the tank, and the aeroplane contained striking as an evidence
of this disability.
In war, an ounce of calculation is worth a ton of intuition.
It also saves many lives.
Number four, the under estimation of enemy ability.
Number five, and he's got whole sections about each one of these.
That's where you got to buy the book.
Number five, an emphasis upon the importance of blind obedience and loyalty at the expense
of initiative and innovation at lower levels of command.
So that's just, if you lose that.
So if you're in charge of the company of soldiers and your focus is on getting them to
be blindly obedient because you're an authoritarian, it's bad.
And you're doing it at the expense of having decentralized command.
Watch out for that.
Got to beware.
Number six, the protection of the reputations of senior commanders and punishment of those
in the lower military hierarchy if they voice any opinion.
Whoever valuable in itself implies criticism of those higher up.
So they don't want to hear any pushback on anything, which is again, a start contrast
to what I encourage all the time.
Up and down the chain of command, I want pushed back from my team.
My team isn't pushing back, actually.
I'm nervous.
Now I think I've got blind obedience, which I don't want.
Number seven, close.
We were related to the foregoing effects of authoritarianism is an individual's propensity
to blame others for their own shortcomings.
This is the opposite of extreme ownership.
So the opposite of extreme ownership is authoritarian and blaming other people.
When it's soccer if I was reading this book, right now, and it just wasn't working.
It was all not massive enough.
All my theories were wrong.
For eight, the close relationship between authoritarianism and obsessive traits has also
played a significant part of military incompetence.
This is a matter which we discussed earlier.
Suffice it to say that the worst excesses of bull and the clinging to an across-dick ritual
have played not a not inconsiderable part in holding back the military machine.
So when you are hyper-obsessed OCD on little things that don't matter, this is not going
to help you.
Number nine, there's one trait of the authoritarian personality which at first sight may
seem to have nothing to do with military incompetence, a belief in supernatural forces.
The contrary is in fact the case.
As a general issue, since military decision should not be based upon a proper weighing
up of facts, the introduction of metaphysical variables into decision-making necessarily contributes
noise which decreases the probability of decisions being correct.
Concern with what the stars, foretell, or hopes and occasionally fears of the divine intervention
constitute prejudices which can bias decisions away from realism in towards a wishful
fantasies.
That's a weird one to me because you would think that the people that were anti-authoritarian
would be more superstitious but we didn't run through all the examples of all kinds of examples
of that.
All kinds of examples throughout history of people that are authoritarian.
I mean, Hitler is a good example because he was all into the occult and all that superstitious
about stuff.
One of the least, number ten, one of the least attractive aspects of the authoritarian
personality is his generalized hostility, what the Berkeley researchers called vilification
of the human, this was a trait that was manifested to such an extreme degree by members
of the Nazi SS.
They commit wholesale murder not just without guilt or shame, but perhaps most surprisingly
without the slightest evidence of revulsion.
Then he says, finally, there is the fact that authoritarianism itself, so damaging to military
endeavor will actually predispose an individual towards entering upon the very career
wherein his restricted personality can wreak the most habits.
Because there's what I kind of opened up with saying today.
People that have these tendencies are attracted to the military and he gives a following
case study case 19, Cecil or Cecil.
Yeah, I guess Cecil would be a girls name one.
Yes.
So Cecil is a male name.
Yes, sir.
More of a British name.
I'm never met in American dude named Cecil of you.
Yes, sir.
Really?
Yeah.
No, just one.
Was he from England?
No.
No, not again.
Cecil.
Okay.
Here we go.
Wait, who's Cecil peoples?
Oh, that's it.
That's an actor.
No, isn't that a UFC guy?
Cecil peoples?
So UFC is a commentator or a ref, maybe?
I think he's a ref.
I'm drawing a blank for a reason.
Cecil peoples, right?
You know, I Cecil people shout out.
All right.
I am, if I, if I'm not mistaken, he's a referee.
Early on.
Get your phone and go.
Go, go, go, go.
Seriously.
I, I kind of remember him being, yeah, you might be right.
Might have been a judge.
Maybe he was a judge.
Yeah, he seemed like he had some weird background and bare knuckle fighting or something
and then kind of got early UFC activities going.
So, Pee, E. O. Pope Cecil peoples.
Cecil peoples is, eh, there he is.
Black guy.
I need support.
He's a judge.
Why we need to support MMA judge Cecil peoples.
But I don't, from what era?
Hmm.
What was his background?
The era that I was watching UFC, which is probably like five years ago and before.
So, this is the guy that you claim to know.
I knew I worked with a guy at American Movers.
Cecil, um, and then there's Cecil people.
All right, check.
So here's Cecil R. Who is an obsessive neurotic and I wasn't going to read this thing,
but I kind of have to, and I'll tell you why, and we'll get to the end.
His IQ was in the bright normal range, personality testing indicated that he was very dependent
on his parents, but that they were seen as being emotionally remote and extremely demanding
infancy.
He expressed strong feelings of aggression and anger.
He seemed most interested in the history of wars and in playing war games.
He shot darts with vigor and delight in the therapist's playroom and if given a choice
would choose war games, his parents said he refused to play with other children on
last day, others did exactly what they told him what he told them to do.
Cecil said, when he grew up, he wanted to be a general.
So, there you go.
That's the kind of personality we don't want joined in the military, but that is fired
up to join the military.
Next chapter 23, mothers of incompetence were going kind of heavy, not going to go to
deep into this chapter because it's going a little bit into the psychology world, which
again, I think this, some of the psychology is a little bit outdated.
This is coming from me and I'm those psychologists.
Sounds like a close mine scenario.
We'll open it up.
Okay, two points.
Follow me.
You caught me.
I'm busted.
For the reader, not previously versed in the psychology of authoritarianism, the preceding
chapter may have come as something to surprise at first sight, the traits of orderliness,
tough mindedness, obedience to authority.
Punetiveness and the rest well may have seemed the very embodiment of hard-hitting masculinity
ideally suited to the job of being a soldier.
That is an epic statement, right?
All that's exact.
And that's what so many people think.
So many people think that is what we look at foreign military.
Unfortunately, as represented in the authoritarian personality, they are only skin deep,
a brittle crust of defenses against feelings of weakness and inadequacy.
The authoritarian keeps up his spirits by whistling in the dark.
He is frightened.
He is the frightened child who wears the armor of a giant.
His mind is a closed, is a door locked and bolted against that which he fears the most
himself.
I didn't get much out of that, but when I did get a lot out of, when I did get a lot out
of his the fact that when you hear these personality traits, tough mindedness, obedience
to authority, it sounds like that's what you want.
You want people to be, you want to answer, you want your soldier to be, you don't.
It's not what you want.
It's not what we're looking for.
Fast forward a little bit.
Before going on, there's one further point of concerns, the distinction that has been drawn
between irrational authoritarianism as dealt with here and so called rational authoritarianism.
So this is just a clarification here.
By the latter is meant the readiness to accept the no-bay, the dictates of irrational authority.
Cool.
There's such a thing.
He's basically making a distinction here.
An irrational, antipathy toward all authority is evident in some cases of student militancy,
may just be, maybe just as neurotic as non-adaptive as a predisposition toward irrational
authoritarianism.
The common denominator of irrational authoritarianism and blind anarchy is that both states
of mind are compulsive and derived from an underlying ego pathology.
In fact, this distinction between rational and irrational authoritarianism has been implied
throughout this book.
Without the exercise, this is why I had to read this part, without the exercise and acceptance
of rational authority, without certain minimal levels of discipline, and even without certain
features of bullshit, military organizations would cease to function.
This is something I have to talk about sometime with clients at Esslime Front because
decentralized command, we want to have decentralized command, decentralized command, we want
subordinates to be able to make choices and make decisions.
And occasionally I'll get a group that's going to wild with that.
And all of a sudden, we're nothing is centralized anymore.
And I have to bring up the fact that, hey, guess what kind of uniform every guy in task
in a bruiser or a matching uniform?
Why?
Because we couldn't have some guy that was wearing a pair of blue jeans and a sweatshirt
out in Ramadi because they would look, they wouldn't look the same.
And therefore they get shot.
What happens if I run out of bullets?
Guess what?
I can get bullets from someone else and because we're all using the same weapon.
What about my radio?
I can use my radio and I can pick up your radio and use it to why because we're using
the same radio.
So you have to have some level of centralization, some level of authoritarianism that
we're all going to kind of be on the same page.
He says then, it's necessary to labor this point because of some of the semantic confusion
regarding the term authoritarian.
Throughout this book, it refers to irrational authoritarianism for the so-called rational
foretars and we prefer the praise, autocratic behavior, the terms are not synonymous.
Whereas the autocratic exercise of tight control in the situation demands that the authoritarian
is himself tightly controlled no matter what the external situation.
A little semantics there.
He goes in this next chapter, education of the cult of muscular Christianity.
This is where he starts talking about the British schools, how these kids were raised
in sort of like this musk, what he calls muscular Christianity, not kids, but some of the
kids in this timeframe were raised this way.
Here's some of the things that are highlighted by the reasons for this stultifying educational
program are no doubt many and various, but to deserve particular consideration.
So this is the education program that some of these kids were subjected to.
The first resides in the belief that enforced application to unpleasant boring tasks develops
character and the second that any truly intellectual exercise by which is meant the cultivation
of independent thinking as opposed to wrote learning harms that fine sense of loyalty
and obedience which such schools strive to inculcate to think is to question and to question
is to have doubts.
So you get some examples of how these kids were raised, what they did at these schools,
they were playing sports, they were do hazing rituals and memorizing things and it was
all, I mean this is this is true to this day, we've got this sort of school system which
is meant to teach you to be a good worker.
That's what it's meant to do.
It's meant to teach you to be a good worker.
They don't want, that's why they structure things.
It's like hey, some of the stuff that you learn in school has no value whatsoever.
They're just trying to get you to follow the rules, do what they say, get on board with
the program, follow in line with the authoritarian rulers.
So we gotta be careful of that.
Yeah, yeah, sometimes you feel like they, or whatever they are, are doing it on purpose
and sometimes you just feel like, I think this is just some curriculum that no one had
the like gusts to do to just be like hey, we're doing it overhaul.
Yeah, I think you're right.
I think that at some point, like right now, let's face it, if you would go ground zero
and restart your educational system and America would be totally different than it is right
now.
Yeah.
Well, it is slowly changing.
It is slowly changing and I'm not even sure that the way that they're changing is the right
direction.
I think they're taking advantage of the fact that it might not have been the best and they're
changing it to make it worse in some cases.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, I think in a, from a social standpoint, I think they might have
kind of too hard in a certain direction.
Kind of crazy sometimes.
What kids are learning in school?
Did you start being in some cases, what kids are learning in school?
Yeah.
My only point of reference is my, the elementary school, so my kids go to school.
I got the full spectrum from elementary school through college.
I got it all.
Do you think, um, what was I just thinking about just now?
And I'm not really in support of it.
Yeah.
Oh, okay.
Do you think, and I don't know the answer to this, but I just, I do kind of consider the other
side of this, you know, how you, how you, how you just said, um, the school kind of is structured
to provide or to develop good workers.
Right.
Aren't most people workers anyway?
Not necessarily.
No, no, you want to know something what I think is messed up now is I think a lot of times
the school right now is to develop people to go to college and feed the academic growth
of colleges.
Yeah.
But even that, hey, we're just trying to get you to get, oh, you know, it'd be good for
you to get a degree in, bringing basket weaving or whatever.
And no one needs a degree in that.
There's a lot of degrees that you get that you don't need.
If you want to learn about that stuff, go read about it.
Don't pay $200,000 and go into debt to learn about something that has no, it doesn't
give you a skill set.
I always felt like a social problem to me.
It felt like I don't freaking know when I was a kid.
Not not a kid, but when I was, when I joined the military, I already, I used to use the
term.
I don't know if it's ever caught on or I don't know if I've ever heard it, but educational
inflation.
Because when I was a kid, if you dropped out of high school, you could still get a job and
have a normal life.
Then as I got to high school, it was, hey, it was you got to finish high school.
If you don't finish high school, you can't get a job blah, blah, blah.
Then it was that I joined the military.
Thank God.
I joined the military.
But as I joined the military, it was, hey, you know, you really need to really get your,
whatever, what's a two year degree?
You're so serious.
So she, you need to get your social, it's good, it's good.
So good.
And then it became matchers.
And now you've got kids that are going to get in their masters and then they're
doctorate.
They spend, they spend their 33 years old, 35 years old, 29 years old.
For their even getting a job.
And they've backed up, I mean, this is all now.
It's all common.
Like everyone's racking up $3,400, $200,300,000 worth of debt.
And the skill set that they got in whatever degree they got, it gets them a 29,000 of
not gonna probably not probably a $38,000 a year job as a whatever, you know, whatever.
Right?
Whereas if you would have gone to, if you would have dropped out of high school and become an apprentice
welder right now, you'd be making 128 grand a year because you're a hard worker.
And by the way, if you're smart, you start, you know, you get, you figure out that welding
thing and you buy a couple welding, a couple welding machines.
And you're like, you know what I can get to guys, I can apprentice them, I can teach them.
Boom, you can grow.
You can make stuff happen.
Meanwhile, the person that has $38,000 a year job, they actually have no skill set.
So, I think a lot of the educational system right now is a feeder program for the college system,
which is gonna charge people money and this is sort of like the housing crash too.
So the housing crash came because the government was loaning money or backing up loans
to people that aren't gonna be able to afford it.
That was what one of the causes, one of the primary causing of the housing crash.
Right now, the government backs up these loans that these people get.
And so they're allowed to get loans for $200, $300,000.
And they don't realize it, they should, but they don't realize that, hey, you know,
long it takes to pay off a $300,000 loan, which is by the way, is the only loan that you can't
go bankrupt from.
It's gonna, and you're making $39,000 a year.
And by the way, my, my daughter just graduated college in the spring and a really good college.
And her friends are making $39,000 a year, $42,000 a year.
Like they're not making a lot of money.
So I think a lot of the, what used to feed the workers, now feeds into this, into this educational
nightmare of college debt and loans and all that.
That's what's kind of nice about what we're doing at origin because at origin, you don't
need to college education.
You can go get a job and get a skill.
We have a career.
Right.
And we got people that have careers now that have learned to skill, that's a highly valuable
skill.
And they don't have any debt because they didn't go and study basket weaving for four years
at $42,000 a year.
That's getting late.
And how he skits a better.
Oh, it almost seems like a basket weaving would be a better skill than some of the degrees
that people are getting.
Right.
I would basically be a skill.
You can sell baskets.
But they need to stop harassing basket weavers.
No, bro.
It's almost, but it feels, I'm not a economist.
Or nothing like this, you know that.
It kind of seems like that there's certain times and then the education is kind of like
trying to facilitate those times.
Let me have people running the education and then the times change and then education just
follows up with the change, but just way, way too late.
It might even be 50 to 70 years late.
But yeah.
And then things, so now think about it, consider that.
So now that now it changes from like just straight up factory workers to, you know,
a little bit more advanced workers types.
Right.
So now it's like, okay, really the change that should have been made long time ago is
for you to be influenced to go to college, get a higher education.
Right.
Because you have higher level jobs, generally speaking, you know, lower level jobs,
obviously can exist and all this stuff.
But just generally speaking, it's just general.
So boom, now everyone should be going to college long time ago.
They should be doing that.
If they want to get a degree that creates way more opportunities back then, there's not
all these crazy degrees like now there's plenty of degrees.
When I went to college, like they started doing this program called liberal freaking studies,
right, which in concept, concept, it's good.
The concept is good, but probably got to do is get your little degree approved.
And you can just study whatever you want.
Essentially, be like, yeah, my degree is in this, as long as the title was approved,
you can get it.
It's called liberal studies, but it's, and then you have a title for it.
Again, you start doing it just for the sake of getting a degree.
Right.
When you get out of college, you know, you, you could be jammed up.
That's what I just said exactly right, but okay, and that's the later part of it.
But so now you have, and when I say it's a social thing or it feels like a social thing,
it's kind of like people are still stuck in that little zone that's like, it is
beneficial to go to college.
Because there was a point where it's not on that thing.
So you think that they think that, oh, what are you doing?
I'm going to go to college.
Because the day is going on the path.
Yeah.
And then it realized that it's not the path.
That's not the reality right now.
That's all much has changed.
And then you have all these people who, like back in the day, you said people can drop
out of high school and get a job.
Because yeah, you can drop out of high school because all you have to do is know how to
read and do basic arithmetic and get a job somewhere.
Like at a factory or at it, you know, one of the jobs that were freaking prevalent for
those times as times change, you need a little bit more education now for these jobs.
What do you end on true?
What?
There are always, there's, I mean, there is massive jobs that are, you know, carpentry,
concretes or plumber, electrician, automatic drive.
Like there's all these jobs that you definitely do not need a college education to have.
Yes, sir.
Do not need it.
And those are awesome jobs and those, those, those people go out and build America.
But to your point, you're talking about right now.
Those jobs, fullies is, but here's two, you're point.
A lot of people would say, okay, hey, what should I do with my life?
And the first nine things that come up on their list are go to college, go to college,
go to college, go to college, where is it when I was in high school.
Maybe the first thing would be go to college, but the second thing was like becoming a
apprentice electrician.
You know, like I took electricity in high school.
I was saying that was kind of the social kind of, I think that was way more normal.
There wasn't, there wasn't the mandatory track to college.
And I think nowadays, almost every kid is being told, go to college, go to college, go
to college instead of saying, hey, you can go and become an apprentice electrician.
And that's a freaking great job.
And you can have a great life.
And you can contribute to society in a massive way, doing something you enjoy.
Because look, when I was in high school, I didn't want to be looking at books.
Right?
I would much rather be an electrician.
Much rather be an electrician.
Yeah.
And yeah, I think the zone where, okay, basically break it into these two things, where the
social influence, like, hey, you should go to college or you should whatever or it's okay
not to go to college, you can just get a job here, whatever.
This, that passes and changes through time.
The social, to me, the social part is lagging, like way behind the reality.
Yes, that's what I'm saying.
Yes.
That's a little zone where it was the best to go to college if you had that opportunity.
That was the zone.
Right now, socially, the influence is still in that zone.
They're still saying, it's starting to change, though.
You start to hear people being like, hey, college, you know, you're going to be able to
say that stuff.
Yes, but it's, I think it's still there.
The reality on the streets is bro, college is for a handful of people and that's it.
Yeah.
I want to say, yeah, there's people out there that are actually hiring.
They're not looking for college degrees.
And I'm talking to like, I think Peter Teal is one of them.
And he's out there saying, we'll test.
I don't know if they got a testing program, but they're saying we just want smart people.
It doesn't matter where you want to college or not.
That's, or freaking legit.
And here's how you know, here's how you kind of, it's kind of like a finger on the
pot.
Like this is how you can kind of tell that people are still in the zone of like college is a good
thing.
You can be like, oh, yeah, that guy has a degree from Harvard.
It's like a total appeal appeal to authority.
The college being the authority by the way, you don't even have to say what he has a degree
from.
You can say he has a degree from Harvard.
And that automatically, I'm not saying that's it, but I'm just saying that in and
of itself is a point, like a positive thing.
Yeah.
I'm saying.
You can ask the zone, there'll be like so.
What's it in?
What's he doing?
What's one is I actually hear that right now.
I'm starting to, I, and people that I know for sure are starting to hear like, oh,
that person has their MBA or whatever.
Yeah, whatever.
Yeah, it's a we're already getting there.
It's not getting there.
But when moving in that direction, I hear of those comments.
Check.
Back to education here.
Finally, and perhaps the most fatal of all the private schools ethic of honor and fair
play.
So admirable in itself leads to disastrous results when mistakenly imputed to those like
Hitler who play the game by different center rules.
So these kids were told, hey, you got to follow the rules.
And this we play with honor.
And then Hitler's like, oh, really?
Watch this.
This particular weakness of military endeavor continued to feature in many subsequent
campaigns.
Indeed is no exaggeration to say that an absence of adequate reconnaissance that refusal
to believe intelligence reports and a general horror of spying have tended to keep our
armies wrapped in cocoons of catastrophic ignorance.
This fatal preference for honorable ignorance rather than useful knowledge, clean by
devious means was not confined to soldiers in the field, but as an attitude of mind permeated
the highest levels of all military intelligence.
So another thing, this is what these kids got educated to do.
They got educated to live with honor.
That means we're not going to sneak around.
We're not going to cheat.
I had to watch out for that.
Sometimes you get the like, well, I, these for cowards.
Like, okay, we get it.
That's for cowards.
But as well.
I, E.D.s, roadside.
All right, we try to go that out.
You know, that's a coward.
Yeah, sure.
It is.
Guess what?
We have to contend with it just because it's cowardly.
It doesn't mean it's going to go away.
It doesn't mean it doesn't produce dead bodies and main bodies.
Is it cowardly?
Yes, it is.
How do we counter it?
Hmm.
So you put some sniper overwatch on some roads and shwack some people.
That's how you counter it.
Like a reformed, because enormously successful, burglar, who self-righteously puts down his
gemmy to take up proselytizing on the evils of crime, we took to repudiating these very
traits, push cleverness, ruthless and sheer naked aggression that it put us where we are.
The reason that, so what he's saying is, you like a criminal that sort of makes it and
like all of a sudden puts down his thieving tools and starts saying, you know, thieving
it's bad and you're going to be right just wet.
But he's forgetting about how he got there.
And what he's what the point he's making here is we can have a tendency to do that.
Like, hey, in war, if you got to be brutal, we're on top because we were brutal.
We're on top because we spied and you know, broke shit and killed people.
That's what got us here and we can't now set up here.
So let's all roll.
You got to be careful about that.
Now we get to part three of this book.
Interestingly enough, you want to hear what quote it starts off, there's no bad regiments
only bad officers.
All right, we've heard Napoleon say it.
We've heard hackworth said, we've heard echelon front say we know that quote is an extreme
ownership.
Well, it's we're using a different quote.
No bad teams, only bad leaders is what we said.
Did we steal it?
Yes, we stole it from hackworth.
And hackworth steal it from field martial lord slim who is in World War I World War II wounded
three times and guess what, he stole it from Napoleon.
So we're stealing it.
We're using it.
Can't steal.
It's free.
Okay.
We're attributing.
Also too much of history is written as though men had no feelings, no childhood, no bodily
senses, which is something that I have tried with all my might, with this podcast to make
sure that history is written.
And it's clear that these men had feelings, had bodily senses, had childhoods and beyond
that had hopes and dreams for the future.
A lot of histories not written like that.
Section here called the worst and the best.
So now what he does is he starts pointing out some, and this is why I can start moving a
little bit faster.
I told you before we started recording like, hey, there's a big chunk of the book we're
going to cover and cover and what podcast because he starts going into a lot of details
and it's worth reading.
You have to get the book if you want to read all these things.
But he starts pointing out the worst and the best of some of these military leaders.
He said this about Hitler or John Strauss and said this about Hitler in a war from which
so much human error had been eliminated by technological advances alone.
Human error was still the principal factor in determining wars outcome.
Hitler, slip knot.
A little bit about Hitler.
Hitler's particular brand of military incompetence is precisely what one would expect.
He showed a total unconcern for the physical and psychological welfare of his men and
his armies.
And we, man, when we covered Stalin Grot, remember when we covered Stalin Grot on this
podcast?
Actually, a book called Stalin Grot.
He was written by a Nazi soldier and they were listening on the radio as they were surrounded
and they were listening to Hitler talk about praising their dying to the last man.
That's like insane.
Number two, his imperviousness to human suffering, which resulted in such enormous waste
of his own forces was a contributary factor in his stubborn refusal to ever relinquish
gained ground.
Three from his extreme ethnocentrism came another well-known form of military incompetence
that which results from a gross underestimation of the enemy and in particular of the ability
of civilian populations to withstand the effect of war.
Yep.
Thinking that your Nazi soldiers are just superior and then you come up against the Russians
civilians and they're like, what?
One play?
And thinking that they're just going to fold.
Thinking that the Russians are just the Russians civilian populace and even their
red army, which is, you know, bait up of, you know, peasant soldiers, they're going to
fold under the might of the Nazis.
You might want to check yourself, homey.
While many of foreign, while many of Hitler's decisions were military disastrous, his underlying
ego weakness and fear of criticism eventually in several other traits which are under
desirable to say the least in a military senior commander.
He promoted his AIDS and advisors for their sick of the C rather than their ability.
Just promote people because they sucked up to him.
He refused to accept, believe, or even listen to unpalatable intelligence and when things
got went really wrong, he was first to find scapegoats, opposite of extreme ownership,
promoting people because they kissed your ass.
Not listening to intelligence coming in.
This is having closed mind being an idiot.
Like his henchmen, himler, even Hitler, could on occasion show that over control of aggression,
that procrastination, which has incapacitated some other authoritarian military commanders,
perhaps his most disastrous decision of the war was when he halted the German advance
before Dunkirk, thus allowing the British to escape.
Finally on April 22nd, 1945, Hitler failed as a military commander in a way that he had never
failed before, and advocating responsibility he betrayed his command.
And if you're a Ben and leadership in duty like so, yeah, he quit.
He's the ultimate quitter, D.O.R.D.O.R.D.D.D., drop on request on April 22nd, 1945, and then a few days later, on April 30th, killed himself.
He was a good person dumb.
All those things, not stupid.
So you can be really smart and do really dumb things because you're authoritarian, because
your ego is out of control, etc.
Some good examples.
General Sir James Wolff.
He's bitterly and unfashionally opposed to what he called the spirit-breaking tactics of
harsh punishment and drill.
Was quite prepared to disobey orders if these conflicted with what he knew was right.
That sees us going through like these are the opposite of authoritarian personalities.
This guy's Sir James Wolff, I'm going to burn through some of these at the risk of making himself
on popular.
He forced his officers to attend the welfare of their men to visit their living quarters,
have regard for their health and generally get to know them as fellow human beings.
Wellington.
Next guy, he highlights here.
Wellington did not even science of emotional restriction, did not remain unmoved by human
suffering.
Suffering did not seek popularity was unimpressed by bull and did not seek scapegoats for
his military setbacks.
This is a good leader.
He spurned the decorations of authority.
Large staffs, centuries, gold braids.
We didn't want to be all dressed up.
Wellington's self-confidence is also reflected in his refusal to make scapegoats of others.
Thus up the Burgos fiasco he said, I see that a disposition already exists to blame the
government for the failure of the siege of Burgos.
It was entirely my own act.
Thankfully he didn't put that into a book and call it extreme ownership.
Otherwise I would have been kind of out of luck.
Because that's what he did.
Here's the bad situation that unfolded during the siege and he took ownership of it.
Then blame anybody.
As usual after a battle his mood was set by the losses, not the glory.
On the morning after the siege, another Wellington showed himself to his deeply astonished
staff.
He visited the dead and on seeing so many of his finest men destroyed, he broke down and
swept.
Finally he displayed an open mind to new ideas, quick to innovate and see advantages in the
progress of technology.
Use remarkably laws a fair regarding the dress of his soldiers.
Thirdly he did not commit that cardinal error of so many military incompetence under
the rest of the enemy, he took infinite plans, pains and military planning, left nothing
to chance, selected officers for their efficiency, always did recon.
So you can see what he's getting out here.
Shaka, the Zulu King of his general ship that has been written.
Shaka's particular genius, laying his meticulous personal attention to detail and sheer
hard work.
If it all possible, he always insisted on inspecting everything himself in every one of
his critical battles he insisted on personal recon ordering the ground and the disposition
of enemy forces, he invariably checked all reports by procuring collateral evidence.
Shaka could also be humane.
He talks about Shaka actually being pretty brutal to his men, which I don't always
a little bit thinking, well, why are you trying to give this guy as this great example?
Who's who hesitated to follow his example in painful initiation where instantly clubbed
the death?
It seems a little authoritarian to me, bro.
Dixon, where are you at?
Well, I mean, if we're cutting some slack here, so here's the deal.
Another example of his flexibility and refusal to dominate a by tradition was Shaka's
banning of sandals for his fighting men.
By making them run barefoot, a considerable and by no means popular break with tradition,
he invested his army, the speed of movement, foreign access of that achievement by his enemies.
The displeasure he incurred through this innovation was hardly reduced by an order to his
warriors that they should harden their feet on the parade ground, stroom with thorns.
Those who hesitated to follow him in his example in this painful tradition were instantly
clubbed the death.
Seems a little authoritarian there, bro.
But Dixon says that Shaka could also be humane as well as punitive in caring for his
army to ensure that his fighting men were kept warm, well rested and well fed and orderly
was provided for every three soldiers under his command.
No battles fought without adequate supplies of food, water, and bark dressings being assembled
at strategic points beforehand.
It can be summed up as autocratic, totally non-authoritarian, high-enachievement motivation
and yet capable of great warmth and sympathy.
According to Ritter, he was highly emotional and sentimental behind a facade of iron-clad
iron self-discipline the fact that he was the finest composer of songs.
The leading dancer and wittyest punster suggests an artist who would naturally have a highly
strong nature and more sensitive than the comber common run of the Nungi race.
So there's Shaka Napoleon.
The evidence suggests that though he was ambitious ruthless, devious unscrupulous, grand
geos, despotic, Machiavellian, dictatorial and autocratic he was not authoritarian.
Again, this is where he's getting some semantics here that's kind of like, mmmm.
Napoleon could be the reverse of extra punitive, the fault to argue lay not so much
of the men as with himself.
So he, when things were didn't go the way he wanted, he often said it was his fault.
Cool.
I think he's stretching, man, on Napoleon.
Because I think it's a scale, right?
Napoleon, I think, had an open mind when it came to combat.
But I think he was an ego maniac.
We have a free what's that?
Napoleon complex, right?
You're all little and trying to be big.
Stern and Imperius II, in his business hours, Napoleon was all ease and sunshine to his
sentiments.
They admired his pleasant wit, his unaffected gate, he's rich and brilliant, handing of
moral and political themes.
And he's trying to make him out to be a little less authoritarian than he was in my opinion.
But some of these guy, even the guy Chuck Azulu, he was maybe he was authoritarian in certain
ways.
That's what I just said, it's a scale, right?
Or whatever in other ways.
And he kind of found Chuck a balance.
Yeah, so like back to Chuck, he would be not what is the one, what's the opposite of
authoritarian, authoritarian?
Libre, what's the opposite?
Well, yeah, he was anti.
Except when it came to those feet, man, those feet got it, you know, like, you got a
like, how you guys say, you got the line on some stuff.
You know, those radios, you got to know how to program your radios.
But the patches, that's like a little bit.
So Chuck was like that with a lot of stuff.
So man, Chuck, kind of keeping it real.
Kind of keeping it real.
Kind of keeping it real, you know.
But that's how, right?
That's the day caught him.
Yeah.
That's the day caught him in.
And I think that's, he's trying to point out some of that day caught him.
I think he's leaning to try and show these good leaders as being less of them.
authoritarian.
Yeah.
Because Napoleon, I mean, gusher, you know, Hitler, Napoleon, these guys like, yeah, they
lost and they lost huge and they're bad.
But they did some effective stuff.
Oh, yeah, well, Napoleon, I mean, Napoleon won a lot.
And Hitler won a lot too, man.
That's what I'm saying.
So let's crack kick in and off.
Took over giant swaths of Europe and Napoleon did the same thing.
So there was definitely some, they did some shit that was that they want.
It was effective.
Yeah.
And by the way, there's other people that were totally authoritarian that did authoritarian
shit and law and also want the Crimean War, right?
With the brits, the brits were doing the dumbest, most horrible authoritarian ego driven
moves and getting guys killed by the bushel and yet they still were able to win.
This is a little bit more about Napoleon, finally like many of the other commanders on our
list.
Napoleon was without that vanity.
This like struck me bro, without that vanity which Patokan's a week ego was notoriously
careless about his dress, had a wide range of intellectual interests and promoted his
subordinates on the basis of their efficiency.
Okay.
So that's cool.
Makes sense.
Nor did he display the debilitating over control of aggression, which his on occasion
is paralyzed, warlike behavior of less successful commanders.
Nelson.
Nelson did not display a compulsive concern with Ordea Lenniss if his dress was anxious to
give pleasure to everyone about him distinguishing each turn by some act of kindness and chiefly
those who seem to require it.
The most Nelson seems like he's just a really good guy.
And he residual doubts one might have regarding Nelson's freedom from the crippling effects
of a week ego should be resolved by considering his most famous characteristic disobedience.
Possessing boundless moral courage.
He was himself prepared to disobey if he fought it to the advantage of his country.
And often he was right.
Nelson was in fact always urging others even allies, superiors and officials of the army
to disregard their orders if necessary and what he thought was to be the general interest
of the cause.
This is one of the best quotes on decentralized command I have ever heard in my life.
So this is Nelson.
Nelson's own view of this matter was uncomplicated as he said to the Duke of Clarence
to serve my king and to destroy the French I consider as the great order of all from which
little one spring.
And if one of these little ones militate against it for who can exactly tell at a distance
I go back and obey the great order and object.
That's a beautiful understanding of decentralized command.
Here's what we're trying to get done.
And there's a bunch of different ways you can get it done.
I'm telling you to do something but it doesn't quite make sense in supporting the strategic
goal.
Don't do it.
Do something else.
So that's a non-authoritarian mindset which is good to go.
See Lawrence Lawrence of Arabia of his general ship, L'Adele Hart Row Lawrence can bear
comparison with Mar-Bron Napoleon in that vital faculty of general ship.
The power of grasping instantly the picture of the ground in situation of relating the
one to the other and the local to the general.
He was able to see what was happening not just what's happening right there but see it in
the big picture.
He was able to attach take a step back, look around.
I think strategic L'Adele Hart considered that Lawrence also showed the same profound
profound understanding of human nature, the same power of commanding affection while
commanding energy and the same consummate blend of diplomacy with strategy.
At a cool head, L'Adele Hart also considered that Lawrence the most widely read of generals
was more of a steep denogged of war than any other generals of the last one.
In personality, this one read a little bit more because well because this in personality
Lawrence is probably the least authoritarian senior commander of the world as ever known.
He was totally without personal ambition, refused promotion, honors and awards for himself
and deplored the pump, vanities and ritualized bowing and scraping which won associate with
the power structure of the hierarchical command systems.
We like this guy.
How do they get?
Yeah, we're down.
The fact that he could renounce his name for that of Ross and later Sean happily
resume his role of a lowly ranker after achieving worldwide fame indicates a degree of
self-effacement quite unique amongst military men.
Contrary to a characteristic predisposition of authoritarian individuals, Lawrence disliked
interfering with other men's freedom.
You can't impose on other people you shouldn't impose on other people you shouldn't
mess with their freedom.
He disliked giving orders and in fact exercised effective command largely through the
tendering of advice.
Have you ever heard of your late father and explained how many times I gave him a direct
order?
Oh yes, I have heard him explain the number.
Zero times.
That this advice was acted upon suggest that by his personality he achieved a level of
leadership rarely attained by military commanders.
He himself was prepared to obey foolish orders but disliked passing these on to others
as La Dal Hart remarks and war such orders are often the result useless sacrifice of men's
lives in peace they often contribute to the sterilization of men's reason.
Oh that's a good one.
You barco orders, you make people do what you want them to do, you're going to sterilize
their brain.
Lawrence was a great respect to reason and consider that the possession of knowledge was
of primary importance for a military leader.
In his opinion, quote, the perfect general would know everything in heaven and earth and
quote by the same token this most open minded of men deported the closed and vaccus minds
of his military compatriots of men who displayed a quote fundamental crippling, incuriousness.
There you go.
T.E. Lawrence.
We got slim who this thing kicked off with, general slim like so many generals when plans
have gone wrong.
Oh, you take a little bit of ownership here.
Like so many generals, as a quote, when so many generals like so many generals when plans
have gone wrong, I could find plenty of excuses.
But only one reason myself.
When two courses of action were open to me, I had not chosen as a good commander should
the boulder.
I had taken counsel of my fears and bad reference.
There is no evidence here of that telltale defense projection and even though he had ample
opportunity for making scapegoats to those subordinates who had given the advice which
tended to failure.
So you got another guy slim.
Had he written a book and taken, you know, given it a cool title like extreme ownership.
We mean a different spot right now.
Taken into account with other traits as warmth towards his family is absence of rigidity
as parsimony with the lives of his men, his ability to improvise his popularity with
the troops and relative lack of concern regarding his popularity with his equals.
She had come as no surprise to learn that this shiverless, autocratic and most efficient
of generals enjoyed a happy childhood apparently unmarked by those stresses and strange
which may weaken the ego and stunt the personality.
He kind of, in I've been skipping these parts a little bit.
I'm guessing being a little bit biased, but I'm skipping a lot of the clothes like go
and analysis because you know that and I'm just giving you that little taste of them.
You want to get some of that.
You got to kind of get into it here a little bit.
His next section is exceptions to the rule.
Got a little quote here from Rommel.
One must not judge everyone in the world by his qualities as a soldier otherwise we should
have no civilization that's Rommel to his son.
Interesting.
In confidence is not confined to those who were extreme in their ineptitude but may operate
a long line of a continuum of military excellence from worst to the best senior commanders.
Military shortcomings of Montgomery, Kitchener and Hague and their positions along a dimension
of authoritarianism are perfectly correlated.
So this is what you were saying earlier.
It's not like, oh, this is either a authoritarian or you're not.
You could be anywhere on this spectrum.
And as we have been discussing, you want to have some level of authoritarianism.
You just don't want too much.
It's got to be a balance.
But some people can be, oh, they're a little bit in the red.
Some people full green.
Maybe some people too much green.
They're going to make it.
But I think in the military, people that are far green don't even join the military.
We got to remember that people might even in there.
So you already have a composite of people that are a little bit at least in the middle.
Maybe a little bit orange.
Some people lean in in the red.
And it's a continuum.
Talking about Montgomery, and again, you got to get, if you want the details of this,
read, get the book.
It's not my purpose to debate Montgomery's greatness of face to say that, while not without
blemishes, he was in the main, a highly competent commander, and as such needs to be considered
in present context, does he or does he not support the hypothesis that competence depends
upon an absence of authoritarianism and its associated traits.
So that's what we're really hearing there is that.
The more authoritarian you are, the worse you're going to be.
Unless you have zero authoritarianism.
And he points out some things that makes him not authoritarianism.
Authoritarianistic.
Here's Montgomery lacked those obsessive traits, which tend to accompany authoritarianism.
He's not particularly mean or particularly obstinate and judging from his own dress and
leaning it attitude towards that of his troops.
He did not harbor any compulsive urge for a bull.
In this, as in other matters, his approach was essentially realistic.
Seems that whatever else he may be, Montgomery does not advance a well-documented signs
of authoritarianism.
And yet, even in this case, there remains the undisputable fact that for all his greatness
as a military commander, Montgomery did have serious shortcomings which could not be attributed
to a lack of professional ability.
So Montgomery did some jack-up things, and we covered it in one of the earlier podcasts.
We also covered it on a podcast, not about this book.
These lapses were an inability to get along with many of his military colleagues.
Like Kitchener, he had a knack of making himself enormously unpopular with his contemporaries
and preferred the company of younger and more junior officers.
It was a bad sign of talking about this on the Academy of the other day.
Extremeownership.com.
Somebody who's talking about it can't get along.
If you're not getting along with people, you're doing a bad job.
But what's wrong with you?
Aren't you getting along with people?
You should be getting along with people.
It was part of your job.
Build relationships.
What's happening with you?
Montgomery's second shortcoming was that he sometimes allowed his own desire for personal
glory to influence planning, a military plan tainted by an attempt to satisfy the commander's
ego is unlikely to be the best plan, and irrelevant factor has been introduced into the
calculation.
Clearly, that's jacked up.
Montgomery's next shortcoming presents something of a paradox, a concerns, a matter
of communication.
From man who is a depth that simplifying the apparently complex, whose ability to extract
the essentials from a host of irrelevant factors was second to none, who could communicate
his intentions and issue orders to his subordinates with the lucidity that left no room for
misinterpretation, and who could write his memoirs with such a style that puts most generals
to shame.
It is extraordinary that he should have been almost incapable of explaining himself to those
above him in the J.D.
Command.
Kind of crazy.
Got a whole big explanation on Montgomery and who wears some of that stuff came from
fast forward a little bit to Kitchener Kitchener who became Secretary of State in the
First World War had, according to Philip Magnus, two basic attributes and unparalleled
thoroughness and an unparalleled drive.
He was an individual, individualist of great conceptions, whose hard and selfless nature
was capable at times of kindness, sympathy, and even affection.
His traits, his excessive drive, Lord Curson, once described Kitchener as this molten
massive devouring energy, his individualism, and his refusal to conform the originality
of his thinking and the occasional flashes of underlying warmth and generosity are hard
to reconcile with the notion of authoritarianism.
So he's got Montgomery who has some authoritarianism, Kitchener is a little bit more authoritarianism
and as we push through his authoritarianism from Kitchener for all his greatness, Kitchener
seems to have been a victim of the repressive forces in place in him as a child, presumably
as a marionette of his father.
Then psychoanalytics going on, but what were those traits, regardless of where they came from,
his elufness, his unpopularism, many of his fellow officers, his failure to work as part
of a team.
And most damaging of all is latter-day indecisiveness and hesitancy in directing, collipally,
and pain must be ascribed to defects of the personality rather than intellect.
And again, it's just interesting to point out that authoritarianism, you'd think that
makes people make calls, but it actually freaks them out in these pressures that you
waste because they don't want to get, they don't, they don't, they don't handle failure
that don't know what to do and they just, they don't want to do anything.
Run to, run to, run, go off!
Where's somebody that's a little less authoritarian?
So like, okay, you know what, we've got to make a call here.
That's what we're doing.
Now, we get to Hague, and trying to answer the question whether the recurring features
of military incompetence derived from aspects of the authoritarian personality even in
a commander who ultimately emerged victorious.
One cannot do better than consider the case of Douglas Hague, Commander-in-Chief of the
British armies on the Western Front between 1915 and 1918.
Dudging from the war of words, which has raged between his detractors and devotees, there
was never a more controversial military commander.
Here's some quotes, Hague, Britain's number one war criminal, expected Germans to advance
in this attack and at the same time slow, at the same slow pace of his own clumsily planned
results.
Another quote, he seemed to be most highly equipped thinker in the British army.
That's totally different quote.
Another quote, Hague perhaps failed to see that a dead man cannot advance and that to
replace him is only to provide another corpse.
Here's another quote, it is indeed strange that the man who stubbornness in the offensive
had all but ruined us on the Psalm should from August 1918 onwards have become the driving
force of the Allied armies.
That is crazy.
You freaking conduct this horrible operation.
So many people die and you just continue being in charge and directing operations.
Hague was unimaginative, maybe he was competent according to his lights, but these were
dim, confidence of divine approval appeared to satisfy him.
Nothing can excuse the casualties of the Psalm and passion dale.
World War I, freaking nightmare.
So what's up with his personality?
Did Hague evince those character traits that are associated with authoritarianism?
He certainly had most of them.
First start he was conservative, conventional and it is added to toward the French
Eiffnose centric, his diary and dispatch is suggest he was unemotional and totally anti-interceptive
IE not one to reflect upon his own motives.
He was manifestly lacking in compassion towards his fellow men.
It's just so important to hear these things, just to think, what do you think a military
commander should be like and what should a military commander actually be like?
He was a confirmed believer in the direction of events by supernatural powers and reserved
to the point of being verbally almost inarticulate.
Hague also betrayed that triad of traits which, according to contemporary research, defines
the obsessive character and correlated with authoritarianism.
He was obstinate, orderly and mean.
About his obstinacy, little further need to be said from the beginning to the end his handling
of the 30 braze, betoken and obscenancy of statuesque proportions.
His gallouge is stubborn, never changed his mind.
We're sticking with the plan.
For the second trait in his dress, habits and appearance, Hague was a maculate, orderly and
quite probably the cleanest man on the western front, a contemporary of his at Clifton,
remembered him particularly for his cleanliness, a remarkable attribute to be recalled
of a fellow schoolboy.
In the first, for an example of his love of bull, there's this excerpt from a cavalryman,
cavalryman's letter, quote, he had a personal escort consisting of a full troop of his own
regimen.
They were easily the smartest thing in France, not a buck a lot of place, stripes of gold for
the NCOs, silver, great silver skull and crossbones, and quote, other writers have commented
on his meticulous attention to my new detail and his habit of planning each day according
to a set pattern.
So there you go.
Any breaks out, basically, saying Montgomery, out of those three was the best and had the
least authoritarian nature, Kitchener, little bit more authoritarian, little bit worse performance
and then finally you get to Hague, total authoritarian attitude, and well, the worst,
example, and the worst leader.
And now we're getting to the final chapter of this book, Six Podcasts, Deep Spinos.
I went hard in the paint, retreat, this one's called, Hail, ye, indomitable heroes, hail,
despite all of your generals, ye prevailed.
That's from a land or who wrote a poem about the Crimean heroes and I just was talking
about this, right?
The Brits want, the Brits and their allies beat the Russian, despite their shitty leadership.
Classwits, this does difficulty in seeing things correctly, which is one of the greatest
sources of friction and war makes things appear quite different from what was expected.
Good job, classmates.
You know what you better learn how to do if you want to see things correctly, you better
learn to detach, you better learn to take a step back, you better learn to put your ego
and check, you better learn to get control over your emotions, so you're not seeing through
an e-gatistical or emotional lens.
It is not the intention to leave a comparable impression of general ship, but rather to
show that the nature of interspicy, that the nature of interspicy's aggression predisposes
the leaders of armies and navies to certain sorts of error.
So you're saying, look, when you start fighting and killing each other, it leads to certain
types of error, just in its own right.
Then he says, from far from diminishing the stature of senior military commanders, the existence
of this predisposition makes the performance of the majority of soldiers and sailors doubly
credible.
So there's so much natural disaster about to happen that when someone does a good job,
you should get double credit, two gold stars.
For being able to pull it off, when there's all this natural gravity towards chaos, may
have destruction, ego, authoritarian personalities, all that stuff is going on and yet some
people's most military people from the bottom to the top do a good job and overcome
that.
So you should get double the credit.
And this is all kind of a conclusion here.
The theory advanced in this book starts from the position that by its very nature, military
incompetence cannot be attributed to the dullness of intellect.
We've hammered that point home.
There is.
It seems a reoccurring pattern to military messaps, which defies any explanation in terms
of the bloody full theory.
So these people aren't stupid.
It is, and instead is tentatively suggested that the syndrome occurs through the enormous
difficulties of professionalizing the instinctual activity of interest species aggression.
This professionalism entails the growth of militarism, that collection of rules and conventions
whereby hostility is controlled and anxiety reduced.
So you've got this system set up to put command in place to reduce anxiety to overcome
some natural instincts.
That's what the military set up to do.
Not surprisingly, a military career attracts a minority of people with these sort of anxieties
within a military organization.
Their neurotic needs are gratified.
They, for their part, help to reinforce those very aspects of militarism, which are so
congealed to their requirements in return as it were for fitting in so well.
They may rise to positions of considerable power once they become incapacitated by the very
characteristics, which hasten to their assent.
You come in, you're authoritarian, you love it.
You come in because you're authoritarian and you want to fit into that, then you get in there
and you're gratified because that in your advance because you're authoritarian.
And if you make it all the way up, the chain of command, the very authoritarian traits
that you have are actually a disaster.
So this is a horrible thing.
And it took me six podcasts to get that out.
So much for a theory based on past history.
Has it, and he kind of goes, okay, look, I've showed you all these examples, which this book,
450 pages of this book is examples.
But he says so much for this theory based on a past history.
Has it any relevance for the future?
Since armies and navies have changed out of all recognition, perhaps the sorts of military
incompetence described in these pages are no longer likely to occur.
In fact, the evidence suggests this to be a foreloin hope.
So this shit still happens.
Some of the same sorts of mistakes occur now as blighted the lives of soldiers 100 years
ago.
In Vietnam, in three weeks, in 1968, the Ted offense of a lone cost of the Americans 500
dead in the South Vietnamese, 165,000 dead with 2 million refugees.
Why did it happen?
One reason was the inability to respond to unexpected military intelligence.
Fast forward a little bit.
Any doubts as to whether the three factors of remote control.
He goes into a thing explaining how some of the changes that have taken place.
One of them is remote control meaning we're now radios.
We can micromanage people out on the battlefield.
We make these big swollen staffs and all kinds of weaponry.
Has this helped?
Now do we have multiple people on a staff?
Maybe they can help sort through some of these people that are incompetent.
Or we have the power to see what's happening on the battlefield.
Maybe we can make adjustments through remote control.
We've got all these resources and weapons.
Maybe that helps.
So here's what he said.
It doesn't help.
He says any doubts to whether these three factors for remote control, swollen staffs and
the wealth of resources made for incompetence are removed by the contemplation of Vietnam.
In this most ill-conceived and horrible of wars, there was the commander in chief, Lyndon
Johnson, aided by his advisors, dreaming of policies and even selecting targets at a nice
safe distance of 12,000 miles.
And there was the man on the spot, General West Moreland, a by no means unintelligent military
commander, but be muzed by the sheer weight of destructive energy and aggressive notion
supplied by his president.
Together the Maca-Villian mind of the one coupled with the traditional military mind
of the other produced a pattern of martial lunacy.
So abject and appalling that it eventually did for both of them.
Like the Boor leaders, a half-century earlier, earlier, the versatile General G-Op, this
is the Vietnamese, North Vietnamese commander and his commander in chief, a little old man
with a wispy beard.
Ho Chi Minh made a huge professionally trained and over-equipped army of their enemies
look utterly ridiculous and their leaders helplessly.
I rate unfettered by traditional militarism, lacking in excessive brute force and without
an obsession with capturing real estate, whole and job relied on poor men's strategy.
Surprise deception and the ability to melt away, they relied on the fact that West Moreland
would expand, expand his energies, swatting wherever they had last been heard of while they
got ready to sting in somewhere else.
Yeah, and it's one of the most fascinating thing, and when we covered General Mouse,
like little red book, one thing that's so fascinating about this is what the communists
do to win wars is utilize decentralized command and they do it great and then for the way
they run their government, they decide to make it a foritary and in centralized, which
is crazy, which is crazy, and that's exactly what that spells out right there.
When we're in battle, decentralized command make things happen, small units out there acting
independently with freedom, and then for the government, guess what, we're locking
it all down, you're going to obey obey obey.
This brings up yet another hazard of modern war, government by committee.
Take the decision to invade Cuba with a group of crew, Cuban excitals, Bay of Pigs, and
approving the CIA plan Kennedy and his advisors made six assumptions each was wrong.
They assumed that no one would guess the US government was responsible for the invasion,
and they're contempt for the Cuban Air Force, they assumed it would be annihilated before
the invasion began.
They assumed that the small invasion force led by unpopular ex-offices from the best
teaser regime would be more than a match for Castro's quote, week army of 20,000 well-cooked
Cuban troops, they assumed that the invasion would touch off a general revolt behind Castro's
line, they assumed that even if unsuccessful in their primary objective, the ex-IL forces,
the ex-IL force could hold up in Cuban reinforced anti-Castro guerrillas.
What's their plan? Do assumption, assumption, assumption, assumption, and the event that
each assumption proved a gross, in the event, each assumption proved a gross miscalculation.
Nothing went as planned.
Nobody believed the CIA covered story that ships carrying reserve ammunition for the invasion
force failed to arrive.
Two were sunk in two fled by the second day, and the invaders were surrounded by Castro's
army and by the third day they were either dead or behind bars.
Seven months later, the United States recovered what was left of their invasion force
for a ransom price to Castro of $53 million, Kennedy was stricken.
How could I have been so stupid as to let them go ahead he asked?
As Sornson wrote, his anguish was doubly deepened by the knowledge that the rest of the
world was asking the same question.
Arthur Slesinger, Jr., noted that Kennedy would sometimes refer incredulously to the Bay
of Pigs, wondering how irrational and responsible government could have big common involved
in so an ill-start adventure.
Sonded is 77, 7, 1941 had been set aside by Admiral Kimmel Commander Chief of the
Pacific Fleet for a friendly game of golf with his colleague General Short.
96 of his ships, the American Fleet slept at anchor in the harbor American plane, stood
a wing-tipped wing-tipped on the tarmac, American servicemen were off duty and doing weekend
leave by the end of the day, Pearl Harbor with the ships planes and military installations
had been reduced to smoking ruins, 2000 service men have been killed and many more wounded
are missing.
By the end of the day, Kimmel was offering to resign.
Later he was court-martialed, reprimanded and demoted to a position where he's never
again required to make decisions of any consequence.
Pearl Harbor, like the Bay of Pigs, confirmed once again that military incompetence is
more often a product of personality characteristics than of intellectual shortcomings.
For these American disasters show very clearly that even combined intellect and specialized
knowledge of highly intelligent and dedicated men are no proof against decision so totally
unrealistic and subsequently to tax the credually of even those who had made them.
Far from diminishing the chances of an aptitude, the group actually accentuates the effects
of those very traits which may lead to incompetence in individual commanders.
So you get a group together and you'd think that this would kind of cancel out and say,
hey, heck, I don't have that's a good idea.
No, it actually gets worse.
It turns into groupthink.
The symptoms of this process, which Janice terms groupthink include, one, and illusion of
invulnerability that becomes shared by most members of the group.
Two, collective attempts to ignore rationalize a way, items of information which might
otherwise leave the group to reconsider shaky but cherish assumptions.
Three, an unquestion belief in the groups inherent morality, busson-nabling members to overlook
ethical consequences of their decision.
Four, stereotyping the enemy as either too evil from negotiation or too stupid and
feeble to be a threat.
You can see, you can hear this happening in the room, right?
You can hear the discussions happening.
A shared illusion of unenemity in a majority viewpoint augmented by the false assumption
that silence means consent and six self-appointed mind guards to protect the group from adverse
information that might shatter complacency about the effectiveness and morality of their decisions.
That's what happens when you put a bunch of people that have these tendencies into a group
together, it gets a worse.
This is the last thing I'm going to read from the book here.
Finally, it is worth noting that the personality determined malaise of groupthink produces
once again those four most frequently occurring symptoms of past military incompetence,
wastage of manpower.
Everconfidence under estimation of the enemy and ignoring of intelligence reports, these
it seems are the enduring hazards of professionalizing violence.
And I can tell you these are not only the hazards of professionalizing violence, these
are the enduring hazards for us as human beings, as leaders, that we can all fall into.
And as you pointed out, this book is a big warning of what not to do.
I got it, I said it was the last thing I'm going to read, but there's a, look, this guy's
funny and I did a bad job of relaying some of this humor.
Here's the after word of this book.
And then this is the last thing I'm going to read from this book after six podcasts.
He says, this is so British.
He says, let's the readers should have doubted my qualifications to write this book.
Let me assure him that I have marked authoritarian traits a week ago, fear of failure
motivation and no illusions about the fact that I would have made a grossly incompetent
general.
It takes one to no one.
That was from the author in 1935.
A little bit of humor.
And he says it takes one to no one.
But that's unfortunately not true.
It's unfortunately not true.
If you think you're incompetent, there's a better chance that you're not incompetent.
You can see where I'm going this.
Because if you think you're incompetent, you're actually humble and you're thinking, ooh,
I don't know if I need to listen to one of the people I have to say, I need to check myself.
I need to learn, I need to open my mind and see what other information I can grab
or because I've got to feel like I might be incompetent.
If you feel like it's kind of when people ask me about the imposter syndrome, what if
I'm impostering it?
Good.
That means you're actually thinking, man, do I even believe need to be?
I always had that.
I always felt like, oh man, if I'm going to need to be making decisions, I better do my
homework.
I better think this through a better pay attention.
So if you think you're incompetent, you probably aren't.
But if you've been listening to these six straight podcasts and you've been thinking
that this book is about all the incompetent leaders around you, that's the little warning
sign.
Be careful because if you are in that mindset where you think, man, I can't believe how
jacked up all these other leaders are.
So not you, red flag because chances are, this is about you.
And look, here's the other red flag.
It's a scale, right?
You brought that up.
It's a continuum.
And so we all of us, even if you feel like you're pretty competent, you are under threat
of being dragged to incompetency.
So all these little, this book is just a warning sign after a warning sign after a warning
sign and by the way, there's nothing new.
There's almost nothing new.
There's one thing that I said, that's a new thought to me.
I forget what it was.
But in these 400 pages and whatever we just did 12, 15 hours worth of podcasts, it's
all, it's a rehash.
It's a reinforcement of information that I already knew that we already knew that we
talk about all the time, that we've seen it a bunch of other situations.
It's a rehash.
But we're all getting, we can all get pulled, over there, we can get pulled towards
that authoritarian mindset.
Because, you know why we get pulled towards the authoritarian mindset?
We get pulled towards that authoritarian mindset because it seems easier.
It seems easier to say, shut up and do what I told you to do.
It seems easier to say, you know what?
I'm not going to listen to that piece of information.
It seems easier to do that.
It seems like the right move.
It seems easier to say, you know what?
The competitor's never going to be able to do what we're doing.
It seems easier and it's not.
So you got to get watched.
You got to watch out.
You got to pay attention.
You got to be careful.
We all have to be on guard in competence.
In competence is out there sort of ready to attach.
It's ready to attach.
Yes.
And if you're not on guard, it'll grab you.
It'll pull you down and you'll be making bad decisions and getting people killed or ruining
your business or ruining your marriage or ruining your life through incompetence.
So we have to pay attention.
You got to be careful.
We got to stay on the path.
Yes.
The path.
Speaking of where it's, you know?
What do you got for us?
How do you advise?
We avoid incompetence.
Mental incompetence.
Leadership incompetence.
Physical incompetence.
We don't want to have that.
What do you got for us?
Second trial.
Because the Dunning Kruger effect that you kind of referred to, where the, it takes one
to know on that's not necessarily true.
Yeah, that it feels like when you, you think you know everything.
It's like it's easy to know everything when you think there's only like three or four things
to know.
But then when you start due to it and you're like, man, once I know how to stop that
on lock, I'll be good.
Kind of be it.
Yeah.
Because you got on lock three times.
You're in a random, you know, blue belt, you're like, oh, dude, I'm gonna stop that.
And then you get your toe figured it out.
And you feel like I'm not gonna stop the choke.
Then you know, heel hook.
Yeah, I do.
I'm not gonna stop that heel hook.
Yeah, just goes on.
Yeah.
Yeah, so the guy who actually does stop after like you get heel hooked, armedlocked, a
zeeke heel choked, freaking.
Then you go, oh, there's a lot more.
I don't know what I'm doing.
Yes.
So it's a minute to convince you of that.
Yeah.
So that's when you kind of, when the, it's all the Dunning Kruger effect.
It's essentially like, yeah, when you think you people who are like so confident, they're
the ones that know less than the people who are like not confident at all because they know
how much there is not to know.
You know, they have a grasp on it or whatever.
Yeah, Dave, good deal, Dave.
Said something.
I forget his exact words, but I wish I remembered it.
It was something like, oh, yeah, when he's talking about you, you're just a, he was like,
um, yeah, it's almost like you get, you learn what he said.
It's almost like you get worse over time.
Because yesterday there was only three things I didn't know.
Like now there's like 40 things that don't know.
I don't know.
There's a thousand.
Yeah.
With a day that you start to look, start to feel okay as when you go, oh, there's
an infinite number of things.
Yeah.
I just don't know anything.
Take a look.
Well, so we want to know stuff.
Hey, complacency, right?
complacency.
That's one of the deals.
It's like your whole brain and body, but brain, trying to, trying to like be lazy for
lack of a better term, like I said before, trying to save energy, trying to save work,
like when you do more work or less work.
Yep.
She was saying it's like a Rubik's cube.
You're, are you good at Rubik's cube?
Yeah.
You are.
Yeah, you know the formula.
Yep, I know all the algorithms to get the sides, termed up, right?
This good.
Well, let's say you didn't.
Well, actually, not just kid riding on your room.
That kind of surprised me when I was like, damn, all right.
That's like if you say new how to play the piano.
But it is an algorithm.
Yeah, yeah.
It's like a little like a literature.
A little steps.
Yes, yes, exactly right.
Like yeah, it's a little formula for sure.
But whether you know the formula or not, I would imagine that, let's say you got that
thing figured out.
Right.
But then on one side, you got that one freaking different color on the side.
Just the one, you know that's not just one move.
That's like, you know, it's like, you know, it's like, you know, it's like, you know,
you know, there's like, oh, you know the formula.
It was like 13 moves, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom,
left left up to two, two, five.
But it would imagine it would be like multiples of four for some reason.
I don't know why I think that could be right.
Could be wrong.
There's the deal.
Let me ask you this.
What, you know, I was the kid and when we were, we just creeped came out.
It took me like no less than, you know, 15 minutes to figure out how to break that thing
apart.
Oh, yeah, assemble it in the correct order.
Yeah.
And then actually, that's smart to do in a couple of, yeah.
It's creative.
Put it this way.
Yeah, that's the thing.
This might, I'm not saying you were creative because I don't know.
But you seem like the type, you didn't do it out of creativity.
You did it just out of like brute-fucking jacco.
Yes.
But when you break it, that's not the night.
I just broke jacco.
It's just like, hey, yeah, I'm going to solve this problem.
It's direct way I can.
But if you look at those rules, you take it all apart.
It the last pieces, those center pieces, kind of tell a little bit of a story.
Yeah.
You can, they're stuck there.
But no, I think you take them out.
You could pop off like this little star thing.
Yeah, yeah, it would make less sense.
Exactly.
That's what I'm saying.
It tells a little story there.
So you're like, oh, I see, then maybe, I don't know what you do to then put them back
together.
Here's another way to do it.
All the colors are little stickers.
Oh, God.
Yeah.
The last brute wave doing that a little bit more sophisticated.
It is.
I don't know.
So you got like glue all over your freaking hands.
I didn't say it was perfect to you.
And then say it was perfect.
Either way, that's the frustration.
You got it all figured out.
You're going to use it for like, in seconds.
Yeah, the way.
Oh, yeah.
You're going to use it for like a second.
So Rubius Cube is what?
It's nine on each side, right?
Right?
You're seeing those ones with like, freaking like 64 squares on each side or whatever.
I have not.
They're not.
And guys will do them too.
In like a time lapse or whatever.
Nonetheless, you see my point.
No, I have no idea what you think you got.
You think you got things figured out in life.
Then you get this one lone idea that kind of jams up your whole way of thinking.
Just that one.
It's way easier to take off that sticker or maybe just turn it to the side where you can't
see that thing.
It's way easier.
Okay.
Safe way, way more energy.
But the reality is the correct thing to do is, bro, you got to know that algorithm,
the formula.
It's going to take some steps and take some more work.
But at the end of the day, you're going to have a correct.
That's what I think.
Okay.
It's the 100% wrong.
And that's what you got to think in a way.
So amazing.
Like it's even your attitude right now is telling me that you might be feeling the effects
of the what he called, well, how'd you put it, like slipping off the path?
You know, my mind is so close to your freaking metaphors right now.
Let's ridiculous.
Anyway, we're working out.
It's squat season.
By the way, I heard my apparently it's squat season.
Back to squat.
That's the worst.
So we're on the path.
Stay in there.
The beginning of squat season, the beginning of any physical related season.
If there's any more in squat season, it's going to be painful, especially the beginning.
If you go snowboarding the first day of snowboarding season, that day you're going to have
dawn.
It should be sore.
It seems like anyway.
My point is you're going to need some supplementation here and there.
You know, it's no problem.
We got some for you.
Jocco has some for you.
Jocco feel.
That was a long wrap.
Let's start with the energy drinks.
See, this is not seasonal.
This is your own energy drink.
But not the tradition energy drink.
This is a healthy energy drink.
Energy health drink.
Whatever you want to call it.
All upside no downside.
All healthy for you.
You'll be healthier after you drink one or two.
Seems same.
By the way, there's a new pre workout powder formula, which JP to Mel did two dry
scoops.
And then the chaser of the sour apple sniper.
But I did, I was talking to my daughter today.
And she just did her first experience on the new powder, the new go powder.
And while I was talking to her, she was on the roller.
She didn't see to get net pole on poles.
Chain out.
Get that chain out, this her.
And she was saying as she in between breaths that I won't even have.
I wrote it in.
But I took the go.
It freaking hit.
And that is a real thing.
That's a real thing.
Yeah.
And I was an mention this before offline, where I'm no stranger to the jittery pre workout
powders.
I'm not scared of that kind of stuff.
And in fact, you get the jitteres or whatever all that stuff.
To me, that's no factor.
And in fact, when you're tired and the jitteres hit you, I'd rather have jitteres than
to be fired up to work out than not have jitteres than not be fired up.
So I'm like, I'm not scared of that kind of stuff, right?
And our jitter's necessary, though, that's the thing.
That seems like we've discovered that we don't need them.
I didn't even think about that stuff.
To me, that's just what the pre workout was.
Good.
I'll take all of it, whatever you do whatever.
But it is.
And I read our realises.
Because I heard people say like, oh yeah, you drink this like tea.
They'd say this about some teas.
Like yeah, you're up, but it's like a smooth or whatever.
The smoothness or whatever.
I'm like cool man, smoothness.
Oh, good.
Whatever.
It just wasn't part of my world until I got the experience.
So the pre workout I took it, my cool thing is I haven't been doing pre workout for
like years now.
So I took this one.
I was like cool.
No jitteres, so I'm thinking, maybe juck was just sort of scared of the pre workout
experience.
I get it, you know, a little bit more mild.
I get it man, I get it.
But when you start warming up, that's when you feel it.
Like that when everything starts flowing, it's like it connects your brain to your freaking
body more or something.
That's a body experience.
That's what I'm saying.
Let me know in in in body experience.
Nonetheless, what I'm saying is what your daughter was talking about, I understand.
And it's true.
And yeah, I think it had to reevaluate my whole standard of the pre workout.
Because I knew like the pre workout I said I was taking, that's not good.
That's why I stopped.
Yeah.
Because I'm like cool, it's working, but probably I know I'm jamming myself out
of my heart.
I don't know what I'm jamming up on the inside.
But I'm jamming something up.
And yeah, man, now I know the new standard.
So you can get it that you can get your super hard workouts with a little extra kick.
Which might mean you need to protect yourself from a joint perspective a little bit more.
Let's go join warfare.
Let's go super curl.
Might as well keep your immunity in check because we're starting to work hard getting
like a needing recovery.
What, maybe the immune system's taking a little hit will get a little boost from some
cold war, some vitamin B3.
Kind of got you covered.
Yeah, you know, when you kind of like go down the list, you kind of like, it's a whole system.
Really.
And it's not the kind of like, like, I don't want to say useless because I don't want
to like put, put that kind of stigma on other types of supplements.
But it's like a whole system to stay very solidly like on the path.
And then you get on them.
We know we're kind of in squat season apparently.
But then you can be in squat season, which means you might want to get on board the
malt train.
Yes, sir.
Because you're going to need to he build from your activities.
Oh, yeah.
It's got activities.
So I, Scott, Scott, to this area.
I, two stakes the other day.
Concurrently like why?
Yeah, in one mirror, in one meal, just takes brown rice.
Because why would you just have one big stake?
Well, they were two medium stakes.
Okay.
I don't know.
That's the size you buy at the store.
Oh, yeah.
I mean, maybe I could have went to the body, but you know, and I, that didn't happen.
How many ounces were you thinking?
What's the medium regular one?
You know, I have the thin one, the revised, right?
You have the thin, the buys.
And you have the super those super fat ones that you get from the guy behind the counter.
And then you have the regular medium ones.
Okay.
Yeah, two of those.
Two of the mediums.
Which was a lot.
Normally, it just happened.
Oh, my cool.
I needed some additional protein.
That's why came home late.
Didn't eat all day.
I was only having one meal, so I needed to double up on the protein.
Had to.
Hmm.
Some same brown rice.
But can't be doing that every day.
Some same.
I'm just saying it's not convenient.
And also, let's face it when you get done.
You still, these eye.
Even with the most dose rib eyes.
Yeah.
I can still get done with two rib eyes.
Marbled tasty.
Good.
Yeah.
I can still get done and want to have dessert.
What?
Now, what am I going to have for dessert?
Could I have something that is negates my physical progress?
I could.
Or I could just have milk.
Yeah.
That's one more step forward, you mean?
Oh, man.
So good.
Once it hits the lips, bro.
It's so good.
Thank you, Joko, for the lips.
Thing.
That's from a movie.
You should have picked up on that.
I'll pick up on that.
No, bro.
I like that is the imagery of your lips.
No, that's it.
That's a Frank the Tank, man.
And what movies it?
K dog.
Oh, it's cool.
It's cool.
Yeah.
He's talking about beer.
Like a beer funnel.
What is it called?
The beer funnel.
Beer.
Yeah.
He's so good.
Once it hits the lips, it's kind of like milk.
It's the same feeling.
It's so good.
Once it hits the lips, you just, yes, or.
Same thing.
I understand, fully.
But I think that's the new thing.
Get a grass fed, bison, rib, by smaller.
But, bro, it's kind of a dream.
Well, actually, the thing, you know, over at other people's houses right now is actually
milk.
All right.
That's right.
Yeah, that's right.
Yeah, that's good.
Out there, just, you know, you know, exactly where it came from.
Just elk in and up.
Yep.
Good.
We're there at the moment of truth.
Yeah.
Did it?
Good.
So, in the event of you not having elk in your freezer, in the case, maybe from your
hunt, as the case, maybe or double rib eyes at any given moment or bison steak.
Right.
You want some additional protein?
Mulk chain all day.
Mulk chain.
Hey, you can get all this stuff at jockelfield.com.
If you subscribe to it, the shipping's free.
You can get the drinks out.
Wow.
Yeah, sure.
You can get all of it at vitamin shop.
We appreciate those, those stores carrying this stuff.
Because look, you might want to roll in there.
Yeah, it's really rolling there.
Roll in there.
Roll in a wall.
Get yourself a hogey and a go.
I didn't really know what a hogey was.
By the way, is that a East Coast thing or what?
Yes.
There's a whole bunch of names for that particular subway sandwich.
Sub sandwich.
What, you know what we used to call it?
Where I'm from grinder.
If you heard that before, it's not.
It's not.
My wife, who's from England, would call it a back.
AP.
That's not true.
That's true.
There's some other ones I think were missing.
Oh, poor boy, poor boy.
Poor boy.
That's another one.
So there's some names out there.
Yeah, all day.
Meanwhile.
Also, also, origin USA.
This is American-made stuff.
Look, you get, look, our health is together.
We know that, Erie.
We're standing in the path.
It's not.
Don't complicit on the path.
Right?
Yeah.
Look.
You want it as far as a parallel goes.
We all wear clothes.
Hopefully.
Well, maybe we wear clothes.
Yeah.
We want some iconic American-made attire denim jeans, boots, some shirts, some other leather
garalettes, belts, this kind of stuff.
What if it was all made in America?
Oh, it is.
What is it?
By the way, but you want that bison steak?
Cool.
How about that bison boots?
Oh, yeah.
Made in America.
A couple leather.
We were able to use the terms, so I'll go.
I think I did one time and I was very uncomfortable.
Yeah.
I'm going to use it again right now, describing some bison boots, which are supple.
All right.
There you go.
You heard it here.
Look, go.
But yes, but everything made in America from the materials, the raw materials, grown
in America.
Everything all the way up to the jeans you wearing on your hips.
And so you're good 24 hours a day.
Because you got also, because we're training to jitter, you got your jitter geek.
You got to rift geeks.
You're never going to get another kind of geek in.
Oh, yeah.
So the whole system is accounted for.
Yeah.
So the first thing I did was do the game.
It's true.
Or junior say dot com also, jitter, so now you want to go into straight up representing
on the path like a choice, a contrast choice to represent.
Is there a psychological hit that you get when you were a little kid?
You got new sneakers.
Yes, sir.
We're running a little bit faster.
We're on the path.
We put on a freaking t-shirt that says, dear spleen equals freedom.
Do we go a little bit harder in the pain?
Yes, we do.
So there's a thing that sounds like, oh, that's kind of like funny.
You're right.
It's absolutely true.
And here's the thing, do an experiment.
The science.
Where's the wear?
A shirt or a hoodie or whatever says this will equals freedom.
Look in the mirror and eat a cookie.
See how I'm not saying not going to be able to eat the cookies.
I'm not saying that.
It's going to be a hard way harder.
Yes.
Oh, yeah.
So now if you're just in your everyday life, but you're representing.
But the chances of you flipping off the path, even for that moment.
I actually feel bad we haven't put this word out before.
Because this is important.
It's like the same.
It's kind of important.
It is.
Yes, sir.
It's true.
It just sort of applies like if you're just representing the general in general,
it's just that much more efficient way of staying on the path.
So I'm saying, and let's face it.
You see somebody else representing your representing this.
The collegian.
Right.
Now we're even stronger together together.
Also, the shirt locker.
This is a part of Jocco's store.
It's a part.
Choose the sign up for shirt locker. You're going to new shirt every month with.
Did you change the word?
Creative designs.
You said something.
Well, now there's actually bad ass because the new one that just came out is.
And it's new.
It's like a new scenario.
It's a tank.
There's kettlebells flying off, which I noticed.
You did run into the kettlebells.
There's kettlebells flying through the air.
I'm riding this tank sort of in a aggressive hospital kind of way.
We're in a deaf court.
Which I'm wearing right now.
By the way, maybe I just dismounted my tank and showed up here to tell you his
forecast.
Two machine guns.
And the tank is an M1 Abrams tank.
By the way.
So you have a good depiction.
When it looks like a comic book thing, that's what made it because kind of a
dope thing.
Yeah.
I commend your work there.
Commended.
The bad news is that was last month's shirt.
Like this past month's shirt.
The good news is when you're signed up as short, long as I don't care if you
sign up next year, you can still get that shirt if you want.
If access to that shirt.
If you signed up.
So, boom, nowhere is anyway.
Yeah.
Jockels.com.
You want to represent.
Boom.
That's where you can get the stuff to represent.
Speaking of subscription.
Subscribe to this podcast.
Don't forget about unravelling podcasts, grounded podcast.
War your kid podcast.
I got to ask by kids at Jockel Live, which by the way is Jockel Live in Austin.
Coming up Saturday night, Austin, Texas, November 20th.
So, we're going to come to that and ask me questions or hang out or listen to me talk.
Come check that out, but also where you're kid podcast.
We also have Jockel on the ground, which again, we have contingency plans.
We will recently, we will recently shadow ban.
Shadow ban.
Yeah, forgot Shadow ban.
On Instagram.
We know people going to why.
Why do you get shadow ban?
That's the problem.
We don't know why.
We have some suspicions.
We're going to talk about it on the underground.
I'm going to explain the reasons why I think the Shadow ban might have come.
I've been on Shadow ban now apparently.
We have information.
We do have information.
We've got troopers in, let's just say, we have a place.
Something we call access in placement.
We have people.
So we will hopefully not let that happen again.
But look, it can happen.
And that's where we made Jockel on the ground in case mayhem happens in case we get locked
down.
We don't control these platforms that you're listening to this on.
We do control Jockel on the ground.
If you want to help support us, it costs $8.18 a month because we appreciate that support
to have that contingency plan set up.
We make an extra podcast.
Jockel on the ground.
We talk about other subjects.
We talk about Jockel on the ground.
If you can't afford it, we still want, we're still, you're still with us.
You can't afford that $8.18 a month.
Just email assistance at Jockel on the ground.com.
We'll get you access to it.
We have a YouTube channel.
You can subscribe to that.
Or you're subscribed to the origin, USA, YouTube channel for some behind the scenes.
We got an album called Psychological Warfare.
If you need a little help in a moment of weakness.
And look, we could make an album where you have a moment of weakness and we pre-press
of the track.
And it's echo talking about Rubik's Cube for 15 minutes with no logical meaning behind it.
That part's incorrect.
Very much logic.
Yes.
But we did.
We didn't do that.
Maybe we'll do that.
People that have more time to overcome their weakness.
But if you want to get that, go to wherever you get M.P.
Threes, you can get Psychological Warfare.
I am the artist.
Yeah.
Because this is artist's name.
Jockel.
Yeah.
So there you go.
Flipside Canvas.
Dakota Meyer making just awesome stuff.
He started a distribution company, by the way, is not in Texas.
I'm investing in his beverage distribution company.
He started going out proactively delivering Jockel Goal to various stories.
And now he's got people ordering it.
Brother, that's an anti-authoritarian is sick.
My head's freaking Dakota Meyer doing the M.P.
I'm always going to make things happen.
You think it's whatever.
Who's in what?
There's someone in the way.
Cool.
I just outmaneuvered them.
Oh, there's some distribution company that didn't want to make the connection.
Oh, cool.
Dakota Meyer is just in a truck.
Oh, yeah.
Making it happen.
I think he signed up 40 stores right now.
Oh, my man.
What?
Hey, what's going on?
Oh, I'll figure it out.
Make it happen.
So there you go.
He's also got, he's also selling stuff to hang on your wall.
Flipside Canvas.com, going order something cool there.
Got some books.
Final spin.
It's out right now.
We don't even know what it is.
Novel poem.
We know that it brings tears to J.P. to NL, to NL crying in the play.
And in public, check that out.
Leadership Strategy and Tax Field Manual, code valuation, protocol, discipline, and
freedom field manual.
Way of the word, kid, one, two, three, four.
Get them freaking books for your kids or kids, as you know.
It's sort of, if you have the ability to get those books for some kid that you know,
and you don't, you are, you're not a good person.
You're not a good person.
If you know a kid and you don't get them those books, you're not, you're hurting those
kids.
This is factual.
So whatever, I know I've met some really cool people lately.
I met someone down at the master, GJ2, GJ2 player.
He's like, oh, I carry way the word, you're kid in my bag.
Any kid that I meet, they're getting it.
He's just helping kids worldwide.
So do that.
Put it in your bag, carried around.
You see a kid, you're going to kid, here you go.
Imagine that.
You can influence the rest of someone's life by doing that.
So where the word kid, one, two, three.
Mike in the dragons.
Apparently the best, what age group is that?
Little kids.
What do you call them?
Like post, taught.
I don't know what they're called.
That age group is probably the most level.
Yep.
Mike in the dragons, get your kids to overcome fear.
Back worth about face, wrote the forward to that one and honor.
And then of course, extreme ownership in the decademy of leadership.
And we have National Front Leadership Consultancy.
myself and my brother, Dave Babin.
We started that.
Now we got a big bunch of team, a big team of people.
And what we do is solve problems with leadership.
The solution is leadership.
Whatever's going on in your organization, the solution is leadership.
Go to eslamfront.com for details on that.
You can also check out some of our live events, the master field training exercises.
EF battlefield.
Next, master's Dallas, Texas, March 24th, and 25th.
We got Jockel live in Austin.
Saturday night.
November 20th.
Come and check it out.
We have online training, extreme ownership academy.
You do not learn any of this stuff overnight.
You have to train in it just like Gigiitsu, just like playing guitar,
just like shooting basketball.
You need to train continually.
Go to extreme ownership.com to get your leadership skills.
Home.
And if you want to help service members active and retired their families, go to our families.
Mark Lee's mom, mom Lee.
She's got a charity organization.
If you want to donate, or you want to get involved, go to America's MightyWorriers.org.
And if you want more of my excruciating explanations, or you need more of Echos, convoluted
connections to Rubik's cubes.
Welcome.
Echos, adequate.
I am at Jockel Willing and to all the troops out there around the world standing
watching, keeping us safe.
Thank you for your service and sacrifice and to our police and law enforcement.
Firefighters, paramedics, EMTs, dispatchers, correctional officers, border patrol, secret
service, and all first responders.
Thank you for your service.
Here at home to keep us safe.
And everyone else out there may be asking yourself that question if you are possibly incompetent.
And I hope you're not.
But how do you avoid being incompetent?
Number one lesson from this book is something that we talk about all the time.
Be humble, listen.
Don't think you know everything because you don't.
Be humble.
Keep an open mind.
The thing that traps your mind, the thing that traps your mind is your mind.
So pry it open, keep it open and go get after it.
Until next time, Zekko and Jockel.